https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Governor_of_North_Carolina
Governor of North Carolina - Wikipedia
Governor of North Carolina From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search For other uses, see Governor of North Carolina (disambiguation). For a list, see List of governors of North Carolina. Governor of North Carolina Seal of the Governor Incumbent Roy Cooper since January 1, 2017 (2017-01-01) Style Governor (informal) His Excellency (formal) Status Head of State Head of Government Member of Council of State Residence North Carolina Executive Mansion Seat Raleigh, North Carolina Term length Four years, renewable once consecutively Inaugural holder Richard Caswell Formation November 12, 1776 (243 years ago) (1776-11-12) Deputy Lieutenant Governor of North Carolina Salary US$141,265 per year (2013)[1] Website Official website The governor of North Carolina is the head of state and head of government of the U.S. state of North Carolina. The governor directs the executive branch of the government and is the commander in chief of the military forces of the state. The current governor, Democrat Roy Cooper took office on January 1, 2017, and had a public swearing-in ceremony on January 7, 2017. [2] Contents 1 Authority 2 Constitutional background 3 Succession 4 See also 5 References Authority[edit] Among other responsibilities, the governor heads the North Carolina Council of State. The governor was the last state chief executive to receive veto power; the office did not have this power until 1996. The governor has extensive powers of appointment of executive branch officials, some judges, and members of boards and commissions. Nevertheless, the office has a lower-than-average amount of institutional power compared to governors in other states, according to a 2007 study.[3] Constitutional background[edit] Main article: Constitution of North Carolina Originally, under the North Carolina Constitution of 1776, the office was very weak, and was elected by the legislature (North Carolina General Assembly) for a one-year term. Edward B. Dudley became the first North Carolina Governor elected by the people on December 31, 1836. Governors served two-year terms from 1836 until a new constitution was adopted in 1868; since then, all governors are elected for four-year terms. Well into the twentieth century, the North Carolina Constitution made the state's governor one of the weakest in the nation.[4] Until an amendment was added to the state constitution in 1971, North Carolina governors could only serve a single four-year term and could not run for re-election. After the amendment was passed, in 1980 James B. Hunt became the first governor in state history to be elected to a second term. Governors are still limited to only two consecutive four-year terms, but they may run for further non-consecutive terms. Governor Hunt did just that, winning election to a third and fourth term in 1992 and 1996 after being out of the office for the eight years between 1984 and 1992. The Lieutenant Governor is also limited to two consecutive four-year terms. North Carolina was also the last state in the Union to give its governors veto power over legislation, this was not added to the state constitution until a referendum in 1996.[5] Much of North Carolina's traditional resistance to strong executive power came from the harsh treatment the state suffered from British governors in the colonial period before the American Revolution. After the state gained its independence from Britain, the state constitution deliberately weakened the executive branch of state government and strengthened the legislative branch. Since the end of Reconstruction in the 1870s the overwhelming majority of the state's governors have been Democrats. The only Republican to be elected governor between 1876 and 1972 was Daniel L. Russell, who served 1897–1901. As Republican strength grew in North Carolina in the 1950s and 1960s the state's gubernatorial elections became increasingly competitive, and in 1972 James Holshouser became the state's first Republican governor of the twentieth century. Even so, Republicans have still had difficulty in winning gubernatorial elections in North Carolina, and the office has usually remained in Democratic hands. The Governor lives in the North Carolina Executive Mansion, a Queen Anne style Victorian house in downtown Raleigh, which was completed in 1891.[6] His or her principal office is located in the North Carolina State Capitol. Succession[edit] Main article: Gubernatorial lines of succession in the United States § North Carolina See also[edit] 1976 North Carolina gubernatorial election 2012 North Carolina gubernatorial election List of governors of North Carolina References[edit] ^ "CSG Releases 2013 Governor Salaries". The Council of State Governments. June 25, 2013. Retrieved November 23, 2014. ^ Press, Associated. "Gov.-elect Cooper to be sworn in just after midnight Jan. 1". Winston-Salem Journal. Retrieved December 30, 2016. ^ "Stateline". pew.org. Retrieved March 19, 2018. ^ Charlotte Observer column by Jack Betts, September 2007 Archived 2007-09-19 at the Wayback Machine ^ webmasters, NC General Assembly. "North Carolina General Assembly - Legislative Drafting Division". www.ncga.state.nc.us. Retrieved March 19, 2018. ^ State Capitol / Visitor Services: North Carolina Office of Archives & History Archived 2007-03-31 at the Wayback Machine Governor of North Carolina at Ballotpedia Works by or about Governor of North Carolina at Internet Archive Works by or about Office of the Governor of North Carolina in libraries (WorldCat catalog) v t e Governors and Lieutenant Governors of North Carolina Governors Caswell Nash Burke A. Martin Caswell Johnston A. Martin Spaight Sr. Ashe Davie Williams Turner Alexander Williams Stone Smith Hawkins Miller Branch Franklin Holmes Burton Iredell Owen Stokes Swain Spaight Jr. Dudley Morehead Graham Manly Reid Winslow Bragg Ellis Clark Vance Holden Worth Holden Caldwell Brogden Vance Jarvis Scales Fowle Holt Carr Russell Aycock Glenn Kitchin Craig Bickett Morrison McLean Gardner Ehringhaus Hoey Broughton Cherry W. K. Scott Umstead Hodges Sanford Moore R. W. Scott Holshouser Hunt J. Martin Hunt Easley Perdue McCrory Cooper Lieutenant Governors Caldwell Brogden Jarvis Robinson Stedman Holt Doughton Reynolds Turner Winston Newland Daughtridge O. Gardner Cooper Long Fountain Graham Horton Harris Ballentine Taylor Sr. Hodges Barnhardt Philpott Scott Taylor Jr. Hunt Green Jordan J. Gardner Wicker Perdue Dalton Forest v t e North Carolina Council of State Governor Lieutenant Governor Secretary of State Auditor Treasurer Superintendent of Public Instruction Attorney General Commissioner of Agriculture Commissioner of Labor Commissioner of Insurance Category v t e North Carolina Cabinet Governor Secretary of Administration Secretary of Commerce Secretary of Environmental Quality Secretary of Health and Human Services Secretary/Chief Information Officer Information Technology Secretary of Military and Veterans Affairs Secretary of Natural and Cultural Resources Secretary of Public Safety Secretary of Revenue Secretary of Transportation Chief of Staff Director of the Office of State Human Resources Budget Director Category v t e Chief executives of the United States Federal President of the United States State governors (current list) Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California list Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii list Idaho Illinois list Indiana list Iowa Kansas Kentucky list Louisiana Maine list Maryland list Massachusetts Michigan list Minnesota list Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire list New Jersey list New Mexico list New York list North Carolina list North Dakota list Ohio Oklahoma list Oregon list Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina list South Dakota list Tennessee list Texas list Utah Vermont list Virginia list Washington West Virginia Wisconsin list Wyoming Territorial (current list) American Samoa District of Columbia Guam Northern Mariana Islands Puerto Rico list United States Virgin Islands Defunct Cuba Dakota Territory Panama Canal Zone Philippine Islands (until 1935) Philippine Commonwealth (until 1946) Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands Santo Domingo Portals Access related topics United States portal Politics portal Find out more on Wikipedia's Sister projects Media from Commons Data from Wikidata Authority control LCCN: n82127375 WorldCat Identities (via LCCN): n82-127375 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Governor_of_North_Carolina&oldid=939848053" Categories: Governors of North Carolina 1776 establishments in North Carolina Government of North Carolina State constitutional officers of North Carolina North Carolina Council of State Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links Use mdy dates from July 2018 Use American English from July 2018 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Articles with Internet Archive links Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers Wikipedia articles with WorldCat-LCCN identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Italiano Simple English Edit links This page was last edited on 9 February 2020, at 02:46 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view