https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Governor_of_North_Dakota
Governor of North Dakota - Wikipedia
Governor of North Dakota From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Governor of North Dakota Coat of arms of the state of North Dakota Standard of the governor Incumbent Doug Burgum since December 15, 2016 Style Governor (informal) The Honorable (formal) Status Head of State Head of Government Residence North Dakota Governor's Residence Term length 4 years, no term limit Inaugural holder John Miller Formation November 20, 1889 Deputy Lieutenant Governor of North Dakota Salary $116,999 (2013)[1] Website Official website The Governor of North Dakota is the head of the executive branch of government of North Dakota and serves as the commander-in-chief of the state's military forces. The Constitution of North Dakota specifies that "the executive power is vested in the governor" in Section 1. Section 7 indicates that "the governor is the chief executive of the state. The governor shall have the responsibility to see that the state's business is well administered and that its laws are faithfully executed."[2] Contents 1 Eligibility 2 Dates of party conventions and gubernatorial nominations 3 Dates of general elections 4 Current governor 5 Governor and lieutenant governor elected together 6 Additional gubernatorial rights, responsibilities and positions 7 Length and dates of term 8 Date of inauguration, exceptions and inaugural celebrations 9 No term limits on governor 10 Non-sequential terms 11 Official residence 12 See also 13 References 14 External links Eligibility[edit] According to Article 5 of the constitution, to be eligible to hold an elective office as governor, a person must be a qualified elector North Dakota, must be at least thirty years of age on the day of the election, and must have been a resident of the state for the five years preceding election to office. Dates of party conventions and gubernatorial nominations[edit] The dates that political parties meet to nominate official candidates for state offices varies by party. Here is an overview of this 2016 general election cycle: On April 1, 2016, the Democratic party nominated its candidate, Marvin Nelson. He joined Joan Heckaman, the Democratic candidate for lieutenant governor as the combined Democratic choice, seeking to become the two highest elected officials for the state's executive branch for voters to choose in the general election in November 2016. The Republican nominee for governor, Doug Burgum, was announced at the Republican Party's state convention on June 14, 2016. Burgum joined Brent Sanford, the lieutenant gubernatorial candidate, together becoming the combined Republican choice in the 2016 general election. Burgum and Sanford are seeking the two top elected official positions in the executive branch. The Libertarian candidate seeking election as North Dakota's governor in 2016 is Marty Riske. The lieutenant governor candidate for the Libertarian party is Joshua Voytek.[3] Together, Riske and Voytek will present a unified, single option for the top two slots in the executive branch for the state in November's general election. The North Dakota Libertarian Party convention was held November 7, 2015, when the party nominated Riske and Voytek for the 2016 race. Dates of general elections[edit] The dates of the general election for the office of governor are set by the North Dakota legislative assembly. Traditionally, the general election date coincides with the U.S. Presidential election which is the first Tuesday of November in even years, every four years (except when the first Tuesday falls on November 1; in that case, the general election is held on November 8). The next gubernatorial election in North Dakota is slated for November 3, 2020. Current governor[edit] The current governor of North Dakota is Republican Doug Burgum. He became governor December 15, 2016. Governor and lieutenant governor elected together[edit] According to the state constitution, the governor and the lieutenant governor must be elected on a joint ballot, or single ticket.[4] In North Dakota, each candidate for governor appears printed on the ballot with the candidate for lieutenant governor of the same political party. A single vote is cast for both offices; no other option is available to the voter. Therefore, a voter may not choose a single candidate for governor from one political party and a single candidate for lieutenant governor from a competing party. Additional gubernatorial rights, responsibilities and positions[edit] In addition to his role leading the executive branch offices, the governor has the right to sign or veto laws and to call the Legislative Assembly into emergency session. The governor is also, by statute, chairman of the North Dakota Industrial Commission. Length and dates of term[edit] A governor is elected by statewide popular vote to a 4-year term. North Dakota law specifies that a regular term of an elected governor shall commence on December 15 following the November election in an even year, for a term of precisely four years, ending on December 15 four years after his or her inauguration. Date of inauguration, exceptions and inaugural celebrations[edit] The standard date of inauguration to the office of Governor of North Dakota is December 15 following the even-year general election. Thus, the next scheduled inauguration of the governor will be held on December 15, 2020, for the successful candidate chosen at the November 2020 general election. Other dates for the regularly scheduled inaugurations were mandated at various times, primarily dates in late December following the general election and several in January of the year following the general election. There have been cases where the governor of North Dakota was inaugurated on other dates, due to the vacancy of the office of governor. These have included the resignation of the governor, the death in office of a governor, and in one instance, the judicial removal because of a felony conviction of a governor (William Langer; his conviction was later overturned and he was elected to another term). Inaugural balls and related celebrations have been most often been celebrated on the dates of gubernatorial inaugurations. Although the current governor, Doug Burgum, was inaugurated on December 15, 2016, the formal inaugural celebration was held in January 2017. The decision to conduct the celebration at a later date was made to avoid interference with the busy holiday schedules of many celebrants in December.[5] No term limits on governor[edit] There is no limit to the number of terms a governor may serve, if elected. Non-sequential terms[edit] It is possible for a governor to serve non-sequential terms. Official residence[edit] The official residence of the governor is the North Dakota Governor's Residence in Bismarck. See also[edit] List of governors of North Dakota References[edit] ^ "CSG Releases 2013 Governor Salaries". The Council of State Governments. June 25, 2013. Retrieved November 23, 2014. ^ http://www.legis.nd.gov/constit/a05.pdf ^ http://www.lpnorthdakota.org/leadership/ ^ http://www.legis.nd.gov/constit/a05.pdf ^ http://legacy.wday.com/event/article/id/72633/ External links[edit] Official website v t e State Government of North Dakota State Capitol North Dakota Constitution Coat of Arms Flag Seal Executive Branch Governor Agriculture Commissioner Attorney General Auditor Insurance Commissioner Lieutenant Governor Secretary of State Superintendent of Public Instruction Tax Commissioner Treasurer State Cabinet Legislative Branch Legislative Assembly House of Representatives Senate Judicial Branch Court System Supreme Court Court of Appeals District Court Municipal Courts Departments and divisions Agriculture Career and Technical Education Commerce Corrections and Rehabilitation Emergency Services Financial Institutions Game and Fish Health Human Services Labor Land Mineral Resources Office of Management and Budget Parks and Recreation Public Instruction Securities Seed Transportation Veterans Affairs Boards and commissions Board of Higher Education Industrial Commission Public Service Commission Water Commission Other Bank of North Dakota Highway Patrol State Library State Mill and Elevator State Penitentiary Vision Services/School for the Blind State School for the Deaf University System v t e Chief executives of the United States Federal President of the United States State governors (current list) Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California list Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii list Idaho Illinois list Indiana list Iowa Kansas Kentucky list Louisiana Maine list Maryland list Massachusetts Michigan list Minnesota list Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire list New Jersey list New Mexico list New York list North Carolina list North Dakota list Ohio Oklahoma list Oregon list Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina list South Dakota list Tennessee list Texas list Utah Vermont list Virginia list Washington West Virginia Wisconsin list Wyoming Territorial (current list) American Samoa District of Columbia Guam Northern Mariana Islands Puerto Rico list United States Virgin Islands Defunct Cuba Dakota Territory Panama Canal Zone Philippine Islands (until 1935) Philippine Commonwealth (until 1946) Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands Santo Domingo Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Governor_of_North_Dakota&oldid=939987262" Categories: Governors of North Dakota State constitutional officers of North Dakota Hidden categories: Official website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Italiano עברית 日本語 Norsk bokmål Simple English Edit links This page was last edited on 9 February 2020, at 22:15 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view