https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Governor_of_Vermont
Governor of Vermont - Wikipedia
Governor of Vermont From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Governor of Vermont Arms of the State of Vermont Incumbent Phil Scott since January 5, 2017 Term length Two years, no term limit Inaugural holder Thomas Chittenden Formation 1791; Constitution of Vermont Succession Every two years, unless re-elected. Salary $142,542 (2013)[1] Website Official website The Governor of Vermont is the head of the Government of Vermont, United States. The officeholder is elected in even-numbered years by direct voting for a term of 2 years. Vermont and bordering New Hampshire are now the only states to hold gubernatorial elections every 2 years, instead of every 4 as in the other 48 U.S. states.[2] There is no limit on the number of terms a Vermont Governor can serve.[3] If no candidate receives at least 50% plus one vote of all votes for Governor cast in the election, the Governor of Vermont is then elected by the state legislature.[4] The incumbent Vermont Governor is Republican Phil Scott. He was sworn in on January 5, 2017, becoming Vermont's 82nd Governor. Contents 1 Function 2 Succession 3 See also 4 References 5 External links Function[edit] Detail of The Pavilion in Montpelier, location of the Governor of Vermont's working offices The Governor's working offices are located in The Pavilion in the state capital of Montpelier, Vermont. The Governor's ceremonial office, used during the legislative session of the General Assembly, is located in the Vermont State House, also in Montpelier. The Constitution of Vermont details the powers of the Governor: To commission or appoint all officers ("except where provision is, or shall be, otherwise made by law or this Frame of Government") To fill all vacancies in office until the office can be filled in the manner directed by state constitution or by state law To correspond with other States To "transact business with officers of government, civil and military" To "prepare such business as may appear necessary, to lay before the General Assembly. To grant pardons and remit fines, except for cases of treason, in which the Governor may only grant reprieves until the end of the next session of the General Assembly, and for cases of impeachment, in which the Governor cannot grant either reprieves or pardons To "take care that the laws be faithfully executed" and "expedite the execution of such measures as may be resolved upon by the General Assembly" To "draw upon the Treasury for such sums as may be appropriated by the General Assembly" To "lay embargoes, or prohibit the exportation of any commodity" for up to 30 days during a recess of the General Assembly To "grant such licenses as shall be directed by law" To call special sessions of the General Assembly when necessary To be the "Captain-General and Commander-in-Chief" of the "forces of the State" (the Vermont State Guard and Vermont National Guard), although the Governor cannot "command in person, in time of war, or insurrection, unless by the advice and consent of the Senate, and no longer than they shall approve thereof" There is a separately-elected Lieutenant Governor of Vermont. The Lieutenant Governor becomes the new Governor, if the incumbent Governor dies, resigns or is removed (via impeachment) from office. The Lieutenant Governor is also the Lieutenant-General of the "forces of the State." Succession[edit] Main article: Gubernatorial lines of succession in the United States § Vermont See also[edit] List of governors of Vermont References[edit] ^ "CSG Releases 2013 Governor Salaries". The Council of State Governments. June 25, 2013. Retrieved November 23, 2014. ^ Ring, Wilson (November 7, 2006). "Two-year terms in Vt., New Hampshire, keep governors constantly on the campaign trail". Associated Press. Retrieved November 11, 2018 – via Barre Montpelier Times Argus. ^ "Vermont 2002 Midterm Election". www.thegreenpapers.com. Retrieved 2018-03-13. ^ Constitution of Vermont Chapter 2, Section 20. General Doyle, William T. "The Vermont Political Tradition and Those Who Helped Make It." Doyle Publisher: 1987. ISBN 0-9615486-1-4. Duffy, John J., et al. The Vermont Encyclopedia. University Press of New England: 2003. ISBN 1-58465-086-9. Potash, P. Jeffrey, et al. Freedom and Unity: A History of Vermont. Vermont Historical Society: 2004. ISBN 0-934720-49-5. External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Governors of Vermont. Official website of the Governor of Vermont Snelling Center for Government study and poll on the length of term of Vermont governors Government of Vermont portal v t e Chief executives of the United States Federal President of the United States State governors (current list) Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California list Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii list Idaho Illinois list Indiana list Iowa Kansas Kentucky list Louisiana Maine list Maryland list Massachusetts Michigan list Minnesota list Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire list New Jersey list New Mexico list New York list North Carolina list North Dakota list Ohio Oklahoma list Oregon list Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina list South Dakota list Tennessee list Texas list Utah Vermont list Virginia list Washington West Virginia Wisconsin list Wyoming Territorial (current list) American Samoa District of Columbia Guam Northern Mariana Islands Puerto Rico list United States Virgin Islands Defunct Cuba Dakota Territory Panama Canal Zone Philippine Islands (until 1935) Philippine Commonwealth (until 1946) Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands Santo Domingo v t e Governors of Vermont Vermont Republic (1777–91) Chittenden Robinson Chittenden State of Vermont (since 1791) Chittenden Brigham Tichenor I. Smith Tichenor Galusha M. Chittenden Galusha Skinner Van Ness Butler Crafts Palmer Jennison Paine Mattocks Slade Eaton Coolidge Williams E. Fairbanks Robinson Royce Fletcher Hall E. Fairbanks Holbrook G. Smith P. Dillingham Page Washburn Hendee Stewart Converse Peck H. Fairbanks R. Proctor Sr. Farnham Barstow Pingree Ormsbee W.P. Dillingham Page Fuller Woodbury Grout E. Smith Stickney McCullough Bell F. Proctor Prouty Mead Fletcher Gates Graham Clement Hartness R. Proctor Jr. Billings Weeks Wilson C. Smith Aiken Wills M. Proctor Gibson Arthur Emerson Johnson Stafford Keyser Hoff Davis Salmon Snelling Kunin Snelling Dean Douglas Shumlin Scott Italics indicate acting governor v t e Vermont statewide elected officials Governor Lieutenant Governor Secretary of State Attorney General Treasurer Auditor Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Governor_of_Vermont&oldid=939850542" Categories: Governors of Vermont Government of Vermont Politics of Vermont Hidden categories: Commons category link is on Wikidata Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Italiano Português Русский Simple English Edit links This page was last edited on 9 February 2020, at 03:06 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view