https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Governor_of_New_Jersey
Governor of New Jersey - Wikipedia
Governor of New Jersey From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Head of state and of government of the U.S. state of New Jersey For a list, see List of governors of New Jersey. Governor of New Jersey Coat of arms of the state of New Jersey Incumbent Phil Murphy since January 16, 2018 Style Governor (informal) The Honorable (formal) Status Head of State Head of Government Residence Drumthwacket Seat Trenton, New Jersey Term length Four years, renewable once consecutively Constituting instrument New Jersey Constitution of 1776 Precursor Governor of New Jersey (Great Britain) Inaugural holder William Livingston Formation August 31, 1776 (243 years ago) (1776-08-31) Deputy Lieutenant Governor of New Jersey Salary $175,000[1] Website Official website The Governor of the State of New Jersey is head of the executive branch of New Jersey's state government. The office of governor is an elected position, for which elected officials serve four-year terms. Governors cannot be elected to more than two consecutive terms, but there is no limit on the total number of terms they may serve.[2] The official residence for the governor is Drumthwacket, a mansion located in Princeton, New Jersey; the office of the governor is at the New Jersey State House in Trenton. The first Governor of New Jersey was William Livingston, who served from August 31, 1776, to July 25, 1790. The current governor is Phil Murphy, a Democrat who assumed office on January 16, 2018. Contents 1 Role 2 Lieutenant governor 3 Center on the American Governor 4 Oath of Office 5 See also 6 References 7 External links Role[edit] The governor is directly elected by the voters to become the political and ceremonial head of the state. The governor performs the executive functions of the state, and is not directly subordinate to the federal authorities. The governor assumes additional roles, such as being the Commander-in-Chief of the New Jersey National Guard forces (when they are not federalized). Unlike many other states that have elections for some cabinet-level positions, under the New Jersey Constitution the governor and lieutenant governor are the only officials elected on a statewide basis. Much like the President of the United States, the governor appoints the entire cabinet, subject to confirmation by the New Jersey Senate. More importantly, under the New Jersey constitution, the governor appoints all superior court judges and county prosecutors, although this is done with strong consideration of the preferences of the individual state senators who represent the district where vacancies arise. The governor is also responsible for appointing two constitutionally created officers, the New Jersey Attorney General and the Secretary of State of New Jersey, with the approval of the senate.[3] As amended in January 2002, state law allows for a maximum salary of $175,000.[4] Phil Murphy has stated that he will accept the full salary.[5] Jon Corzine accepted a token salary of $1 per year as governor.[6][7] Previous governor Jim McGreevey received an annual salary of $157,000, a reduction of 10% of the maximum allowed,[4] while Chris Christie, Murphy's immediate predecessor, accepted the full gubernatorial salary.[4] The governor has a full-time protective security detail from the Executive Protection Unit of the New Jersey State Police while in office.[8][9] A former governor is entitled to a 1-person security detail from the New Jersey State Police, for up to 6 months after leaving office.[10] Lieutenant governor[edit] Main article: Lieutenant Governor of New Jersey On Tuesday, November 8, 2005, the voters passed an amendment to the New Jersey State Constitution that created the position of Lieutenant Governor of New Jersey, effective with the 2009 elections. Before this amendment was passed, the president of the New Jersey Senate would have become governor or acting governor in the event that office of governor became vacant. This dual position was more powerful than that of an elected governor, as the individual would have had a major role in legislative and executive processes. As a result of the constitutional amendment passed in 2005, Governor Richard Codey, serving from November 2004 to January 2006 as governor, was the final person to wield such power. Kim Guadagno, a former prosecutor, was sworn in as New Jersey's first lieutenant governor on January 19, 2010 under Governor Christie. Succeeding Guadagno, former assemblywoman Sheila Oliver was sworn in on January 16, 2018 under Governor Murphy. Center on the American Governor[edit] The Center on the American Governor,[11] at Rutgers' Eagleton Institute of Politics, was established in 2006 to study the governors of New Jersey and, to a lesser degree, the governors of other states. Currently, the program features extensive archives of documents and pictures from the Byrne and Kean administrations, video interviews with many members of the respective administrations, some information on other American governors, and news updates on current governors (of all 50 states). The project is in the process of creating new archives, similar to the Byrne and Kean archives, for later administrations.[12] Oath of Office[edit] "I, [name of governor], elected governor of the state of New Jersey, do solemnly promise and swear that I will diligently, faithfully and to the best of my knowledge, execute the said office in conformity with the powers delegated to me; and that I will to the utmost of my skill and ability, promote the peace and prosperity and maintain the lawful rights of the said state. So help me God."[13] See also[edit] Governorship of Phil Murphy List of colonial governors of New Jersey List of Governors of New Jersey (1776-present) References[edit] ^ [1] The Council of State Governments. Accessed April 22, 2020. ^ "Frequently Asked Questions". Retrieved July 5, 2011. ^ Wikisource:New Jersey Constitution of 1947#SECTION IV 2 ^ a b c Arco, Matthew. "Not all N.J. governors took full pay", New York Observer, September 17, 2013. Accessed January 18, 2018. "By the time Gov. Jim McGreevey took office, legislation passed in 2000 increased the governor’s salary beginning in January 2002 to $175,000. But McGreevey accepted $157,000 – the bulk of his allotted pay." ^ Livio, Susan K. "Murphy says he will accept $175K salary as governor", NJ Advance Media for NJ.com, January 17, 2018. Accessed January 18, 2018. "Gov. Phil Murphy, a multimillionaire former Goldman Sachs executive, confirmed Wednesday he will be accepting the $175,000-a-year salary that comes with his new job.... There is precedent for accepting less than the job pays under state law. Gov. Jon Corzine, who made his fortune at Goldman Sachs, accepted only $1 a year. Gov. Chris Christie, Murphy's predecessor, accepted the full salary." ^ Chen, David W.; Jones, Richard Lezin. "At a Salary of $1 a Year, Corzine Says, He'll Pick People Known for Integrity", The New York Times, November 11, 2005. Accessed January 18, 2018. "Pledging to work hard on 're-engineering government' to give New Jersey 'a fresh start,' the state's incoming governor, Senator Jon S. Corzine, said on Thursday that he would make good on a campaign promise to accept a token salary of $1 per year when he takes office in January." ^ Chen, David W. "The Goldman Sachs Crew That’s Helping Run Trenton Government", The New York Times, October 4, 2006. Accessed January 18, 2018. "'This is my shot at it, and I hope that I help to contribute to something that’s bigger than me,' said Mr. Rose, who, like Mr. Corzine, is accepting a token salary of $1 a year." ^ Christie security detail tops $2M ^ Attorney General’s State Police Executive Protection Unit Review Panel Issues Report on Staffing, Training, Equipment and Emergency Protocols ^ Chris Christie stopped at Newark Airport for skipping security check ^ Eagleton Institute of Politics (2011). "Center on the American Governor". Eagleton Institute of Politics. New Brunswick, New Jersey, USA: Rutgers University. Retrieved November 10, 2011. ^ Eagleton Institute of Politics (2011). "About the Center on the American Governor". Center on the American Governor. New Brunswick, New Jersey, USA: Rutgers University. Retrieved November 10, 2011. ^ "2018 New Jersey Revised Statutes Title 52 - STATE GOVERNMENT, DEPARTMENTS AND OFFICERS Chapter 15 - Salary of governor Section 52:15-2 - Oath of governor". justia.com. Retrieved April 27, 2020. External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Governors of New Jersey. Official website Executive Orders issued by the New Jersey Governor U.S. order of precedence (ceremonial) Preceded by Vice President Order of Precedence of the United States Within New Jersey Succeeded by Mayor of municipality in which event is held Succeeded by Otherwise Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives Preceded by Governor of Pennsylvania Order of Precedence of the United States Outside New Jersey Succeeded by Governor of Georgia v t e Governors of New Jersey Proprietary Province Carteret East New Jersey Carteret Barclay Hamilton Basse Hamilton West New Jersey Byllynge Coxe Hamilton Basse Hamilton Dominion of New England (1688–89) Andros Royal Governors Viscount Cornbury Baron Lovelace Ingoldesby (Lt. Gov.) Hunter Burnet Montgomerie Morris (acting) Cosby Anderson (acting) Hamilton (acting) Lord De La Warr Morris Hamilton (acting) Reading (acting) Belcher Reading (acting) Pownall (Lt. Gov.) Reading (acting) Bernard Boone Hardy Franklin Post-Colonial Livingston Paterson Howell Bloomfield Ogden W.S. Pennington M. Dickerson Williamson Vroom Southard Seeley Vroom P. Dickerson W. Pennington Haines Stratton Haines G. Fort Price Newell Olden Parker Ward Randolph Parker Bedle McClellan Ludlow Abbett Green Abbett Werts Griggs Voorhees F. Murphy Stokes J. Fort Wilson Fielder Edge Edwards Silzer Moore Larson Moore Hoffman Moore Edison Edge Driscoll Meyner Hughes Cahill Byrne Kean Florio Whitman DiFrancesco McGreevey Codey Corzine Christie P. Murphy Book:Governors of New Jersey v t e Chief executives of the United States Federal President of the United States State governors (current list) Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California list Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii list Idaho Illinois list Indiana list Iowa Kansas Kentucky list Louisiana Maine list Maryland list Massachusetts Michigan list Minnesota list Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire list New Jersey list New Mexico list New York list North Carolina list North Dakota list Ohio Oklahoma list Oregon list Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina list South Dakota list Tennessee list Texas list Utah Vermont list Virginia list Washington West Virginia Wisconsin list Wyoming Territorial (current list) American Samoa District of Columbia Guam Northern Mariana Islands Puerto Rico list United States Virgin Islands Defunct Cuba Dakota Territory Panama Canal Zone Philippine Islands (until 1935) Philippine Commonwealth (until 1946) Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands Santo Domingo Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Governor_of_New_Jersey&oldid=953595060" Categories: Governors of New Jersey 1776 establishments in New Jersey State constitutional officers of New Jersey Hidden categories: Articles with short description Use mdy dates from January 2014 Use American English from June 2018 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Commons category link is on Wikidata Official website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Español Français Italiano עברית Română Simple English Tiếng Việt Edit links This page was last edited on 28 April 2020, at 01:34 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view