https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Governor_of_Virginia
Governor of Virginia - Wikipedia
Governor of Virginia From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Governor of Virginia" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (January 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) This article's lead section does not adequately summarize key points of its contents. Please consider expanding the lead to provide an accessible overview of all important aspects of the article. Please discuss this issue on the article's talk page. (January 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia Commonwealth seal Incumbent Ralph Northam since January 13, 2018 Style Governor (informal) The Honorable (formal) Status Head of State Head of Government Residence Virginia Executive Mansion Term length Four years, not eligible for re-election immediately Inaugural holder Patrick Henry Formation July 5, 1776 Salary $175,000 (2013)[1] Website Official website The Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia serves as the chief executive of the Commonwealth of Virginia for a four-year term. The current holder of the office is Democrat Ralph Northam, who was sworn in on January 13, 2018. His term of office will end in 2022. Contents 1 Qualifications 2 Duties 3 Powers 4 Succession 5 History 5.1 Colony / Province 5.2 Commonwealth 6 Style 7 See also 8 References 9 External links Qualifications[edit] Candidates for governor must be United States citizens who have resided in Virginia and been a registered voter for five years prior to the election in which they are running.[2] The candidates must be at least 30 years of age. Unlike other state governors, Virginia governors are not allowed to serve consecutive terms. They have been barred from immediate re-election since the adoption of Virginia's second constitution, in 1830. However, a former governor is permitted to run for a second term in a future election. Only two governors since 1830, William Smith and Mills Godwin, were elected to additional terms. Smith's second term came after Virginia seceded from the Union, while Godwin became the first ever governor in American history to be elected by both major parties when the former Democrat was elected in 1973 as a Republican. To get on the ballot for Governor of Virginia, each candidate must file 10,000 signatures, including the signatures of at least 400 qualified voters from each of the 11 congressional districts in the Commonwealth.[3] Duties[edit] The governor is the head of government in Virginia. At the beginning of every regular session, they must report the state of the Commonwealth to the Virginia General Assembly (both the House of Delegates and the Senate). They must convene the legislature when two-thirds of each house calls for a special session. The governor must ensure that the laws of the Commonwealth are faithfully executed by either signing, or allowing it to come into law, or vetoing, not allowing it to become law. They are responsible for the safety of the state, as they serve as commander-in-chief of the Virginia Militia. Powers[edit] The Governor's Mansion in Virginia, 1905 The governor has the legislative power to submit recommendations and to call special sessions when he finds them necessary. The governor has veto powers. All bills must be sent to the governor before becoming law. The governor may sign the bill, let it sit unsigned for seven days, after which it becomes law, or veto the legislation. After a veto, the bill returns to its house of origin and may be overridden by two-thirds of the vote in each house. The governor also has the power to use a line-item veto. He may send legislation back to the legislature with recommendations and amendments. The legislature must either approve the changes by a majority in each house or override the veto with a two-thirds majority in each house. The governor is commander-in-chief of Virginia's militia forces. The governor may also communicate with other states and foreign powers. The governor has the power to fill vacancies in positions unless the position is appointed by the legislature. The governor may commute fines or sentences and issue pardons. The governor may also restore voting rights and overturn other political penalties on individuals. Succession[edit] Main article: Gubernatorial lines of succession in the United States § Virginia History[edit] Colony / Province[edit] The reconstructed colonial Governor's Palace in Williamsburg, Virginia The position of Governor of Virginia dates back to the 1607 first permanent English settlement in America, at Jamestown on the north shore of the James River upstream from Hampton Roads harbor at the mouth of the Chesapeake Bay. The Virginia Company of London set up a government run by a council. The president of the council basically served as a governor. The council was based in London and controlled the colony from afar. Nominally, Thomas Smith was the first president of the council, but he never left England. Edward Maria Wingfield was the first president of the council in residence in the new province, making him the first to exercise the actual authority of governing Virginia. The Virginia Company soon abandoned governance by council two years after the landing on May 23, 1609, and replacing it with a governor, the famous and dynamic leader, John Smith (1580-1631).[4] In 1624, the English Monarchy of King James I (1566-1625, reigned 1603-1625), in the last year of his reign, of the royal House of Stuart took control from the Virginia Company and its stockholders and made Virginia a crown colony. Governors continued to be appointed by the monarch for many years. Most often, the appointed governor would reside in England while a deputy or lieutenant governor actually exercised authority. Royal rule was interrupted during the English Civil War (1642-46 / 1648-49), after which governors were appointed by the Protectorate under Richard Cromwell (successor to Oliver Cromwell) in the interim Commonwealth of England until the English Restoration of the monarchy with King Charles II in 1660. Commonwealth[edit] Executive Mansion of Virginia (Governor's Mansion) in Richmond, (adjacent to the Virginia State Capitol, also the second capitol of the southern Confederacy), at the end of the American Civil War, 1865 Virginia became an independent sovereign state and Commonwealth during the American Revolutionary War (1775-1783), with Patrick Henry (1736-1799, served 1776-79 / 1786-89) as its first governor (and also later sixth). From the Revolution until 1851, the governor was elected by the General Assembly of Virginia (commonwealth/state legislature). After 1851, in a democratic trend spreading across the Union, the state turned to popular elections for office holders. During the American Civil War (1861-1865), Francis Harrison Pierpont was the governor of the Union-controlled parts of the state, later of which emerged the new state in the northwest of West Virginia. Pierpont also served as one of the provisional governors during the post-war Reconstruction era. These governors were appointed by the Federal government of the President and U.S. Congress, both controlled by Radical Republicans for a decade. In 1874, Virginia regained its right to self-governance and elected James L. Kemper (1823-1895), a Democrat and temporary Conservative Party member and former Confederate general as governor. After the Radical Republican appointees of the post-war Reconstruction era, Virginia would not actually elect another regular Republican as governor until A. Linwood Holton Jr. in 1969. However, in 1881 William E. Cameron was elected governor under the banner of the Readjuster Party, a coalition of Republicans and populist Democrats. Douglas Wilder became the first elected and only the second African American Governor of any U.S. state. He served as governor from 1990 to 1994. Since 1851, Virginia's gubernatorial elections have been held in "off-years"—years in which there are no national (presidential, senatorial, or House) elections; Virginia's gubernatorial elections are held one year after U.S. presidential elections (2001, 2005, 2009, etc.) (Most states hold gubernatorial elections either on presidential-election years or midterm-election years, when there are congressional elections.) In every Virginia gubernatorial election starting with 1977, the governor elected had been from the opposite party as the president elected by the nation in the previous year, even when Virginia had voted for the president in office, as with Ronald Reagan and Barack Obama. The only exception being in 2013 with the election of Democrat Terry McAuliffe, following the re-election of President Obama in 2012. Tim Kaine was inaugurated on January 14, 2006. Due to renovations on the Capitol in Richmond, his inauguration was held in Williamsburg, making him the first governor to be inaugurated in Williamsburg since Thomas Jefferson in 1779. The current governor of Virginia is Ralph Northam, who was inaugurated on January 13, 2018. Style[edit] The Governor of Virginia is addressed as "The Honorable", but may occasionally be referred to as "Excellency" if ceremonially appropriate.[5] See also[edit] Virginia portal List of colonial governors of Virginia List of governors of Virginia References[edit] ^ "CSG Releases 2013 Governor Salaries". The Council of State Governments. June 25, 2013. Retrieved November 23, 2014. ^ "Constitution of Virginia". Retrieved October 16, 2013. ^ "§ 24.2-506. Petition of qualified voters required; number of signatures required; certain towns excepted". Code of Virginia. Retrieved February 18, 2019. ^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on November 22, 2005. Retrieved October 8, 2005.CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link) ^ "A Guide to Virginia Protocol and Traditions" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on April 13, 2018. External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Governors of Virginia. Official website v t e Governors of Virginia Colony of Virginia Wingfield Ratcliffe Scrivener Smith Percy Gates De La Warr Dale Yeardley Argall Wyatt West Pott Harvey West Berkeley Bennett Digges Mathews Colepeper Howard of Effingham Andros Nicholson Nott Jenings Hunter Orkney (absentee) Spotswood Drysdale "King" Carter Gooch Albemarle (absentee) Gooch Lee Burwell (acting) Dinwiddie Loudoun Fauquier Amherst (absentee) Fauquier Botetourt W. Nelson Dunmore Commonwealth of Virginia Henry Jefferson Fleming T. Nelson B. Harrison Henry E. Randolph B. Randolph H. Lee Brooke Wood Monroe Page Cabell Tyler Sr. G. Smith Monroe G. Smith P. Randolph Barbour Nicholas Preston T. Randolph Pleasants Tyler Jr. Giles J. Floyd Tazewell Robertson Campbell Gilmer Patton Rutherfoord Gregory McDowell W. "EB" Smith J. B. Floyd Johnson Wise Letcher W. "EB" Smith Pierpont Wells Walker Kemper Holliday Cameron F. Lee McKinney O'Ferrall J. H. Tyler Montague Swanson Mann Stuart Davis Trinkle Byrd Pollard Peery Price Darden Tuck Battle Stanley Almond A. Harrison Godwin Holton Godwin Dalton Robb Baliles Wilder Allen Gilmore Warner Kaine McDonnell McAuliffe Northam v t e Chief executives of the United States Federal President of the United States State governors (current list) Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California list Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii list Idaho Illinois list Indiana list Iowa Kansas Kentucky list Louisiana Maine list Maryland list Massachusetts Michigan list Minnesota list Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire list New Jersey list New Mexico list New York list North Carolina list North Dakota list Ohio Oklahoma list Oregon list Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina list South Dakota list Tennessee list Texas list Utah Vermont list Virginia list Washington West Virginia Wisconsin list Wyoming Territorial (current list) American Samoa District of Columbia Guam Northern Mariana Islands Puerto Rico list United States Virgin Islands Defunct Cuba Dakota Territory Panama Canal Zone Philippine Islands (until 1935) Philippine Commonwealth (until 1946) Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands Santo Domingo v t e Governors and executives of U.S. states and territories President of the United States: Donald Trump (R) AL Ivey (R) AK Dunleavy (R) AZ Ducey (R) AR Hutchinson (R) CA Newsom (D) CO Polis (D) CT Lamont (D) DE Carney (D) FL DeSantis (R) GA Kemp (R) HI Ige (D) ID Little (R) IL Pritzker (D) IN Holcomb (R) IA Reynolds (R) KS Kelly (D) KY Beshear (D) LA Edwards (D) ME Mills (D) MD Hogan (R) MA Baker (R) MI Whitmer (D) MN Walz (D) MS Reeves (R) MO Parson (R) MT Bullock (D) NE Ricketts (R) NV Sisolak (D) NH Sununu (R) NJ Murphy (D) NM Lujan Grisham (D) NY Cuomo (D) NC Cooper (D) ND Burgum (R) OH DeWine (R) OK Stitt (R) OR Brown (D) PA Wolf (D) RI Raimondo (D) SC McMaster (R) SD Noem (R) TN Lee (R) TX Abbott (R) UT Herbert (R) VT Scott (R) VA Northam (D) WA Inslee (D) WV Justice (R) WI Evers (D) WY Gordon (R) DC Bowser (D), Mayor Territories: AS Moliga (D) GU Guerrero (D) MP Torres (R) PR Vázquez Garced (R) VI Bryan (D) Political party affiliations: Republican: 28 (26 states, 2 territories) Democratic: 28 (24 states, 3 territories, 1 district) v t e Virginia statewide elected officials Governor Lieutenant Governor Attorney General Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Governor_of_Virginia&oldid=943054584" Categories: Commonwealth constitutional officers of Virginia Governors of Virginia Hidden categories: CS1 maint: archived copy as title Articles needing additional references from January 2013 All articles needing additional references Wikipedia introduction cleanup from January 2013 All pages needing cleanup Articles covered by WikiProject Wikify from January 2013 All articles covered by WikiProject Wikify Articles with multiple maintenance issues Use mdy dates from February 2019 Use American English from July 2018 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Commons category link is on Wikidata Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Deutsch Español Français Italiano 日本語 Simple English Suomi Svenska Tiếng Việt 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 28 February 2020, at 15:13 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view