https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Governor_of_Hawaii
Governor of Hawaii - Wikipedia
Governor of Hawaii From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search For a list, see List of governors of Hawaii. Governor of Hawaii Hawaiian: Ke Kiaʻaina o Hawaiʻi Gubernatorial logo Standard of the Governor Incumbent David Ige since December 1, 2014 Residence Washington Place Term length Four years, renewable once Precursor Governor of Hawaii Territory Inaugural holder William F. Quinn Formation August 21, 1959 (60 years ago) (1959-08-21) Deputy Lieutenant Governor of Hawaii Website Official website Hawaii This article is part of a series on the politics and government of Hawaii Constitution United States Constitution Hawaii Constitution Executive Governor David Ige Lieutenant Governor Josh Green Attorney General Doug Chin Legislature Hawaii Senate President of the Senate Ron Kouchi (D) Majority Leader J. Kalani English (D) Minority Leader Vacant House of Representatives Speaker Scott Saiki (D) Majority Leader Vacant Minority Leader Andria Tupola (R) Judiciary Hawaii State Supreme Court Chief Justice Mark E. Recktenwald Nakayama McKenna Pollack Wilson Intermediate Court of Appeals Circuit courts District courts Family courts Land Court Elections Elections Political Parties Democratic Party Republican Party Green Party Libertarian Party National minor parties Political party strength Inferior Jurisdictions Counties Census designated places Federal Representation United States Senators Brian Schatz (D) Mazie Hirono (D) U.S. Representatives 1: Colleen Hanabusa (D) 2: Tulsi Gabbard (D) Politics of the United States Politics portal United States portal Hawaii portal v t e The Governor of Hawaii (Hawaiian: Ke Kiaʻaina o Hawaiʻi) is the chief executive of the state of Hawaii and its various agencies and departments, as provided in the Hawaii State Constitution Article V, Sections 1 through 6. It is a directly elected position, votes being cast by popular suffrage of residents of the state. The governor is responsible for enforcing laws passed by the Hawaii State Legislature and upholding rulings of the Hawaii State Judiciary. The role includes being commander-in-chief of the armed forces of Hawaii and having the power to use those forces to execute laws, suppress insurrection and violence and repel invasion. The Lieutenant Governor of Hawaii becomes acting governor upon the officeholder's absence from the state or if the person is unable to discharge the powers and duties of the office. Historically, the Governor of Hawaii has been from either the Democratic Party of Hawaii or Hawaii Republican Party. The current Governor of Hawaii is Democrat David Ige, who assumed the position on December 1, 2014. Hawaii was the first U.S. state to have an Asian American chief executive; George Ariyoshi served three terms between 1974 and 1986. The state currently has had three Asian American, one Native Hawaiian, as well as four white people holding the governorship. Contents 1 Qualifications 2 Authority 3 Residence 4 Succession 5 See also 6 References 7 External links Qualifications[edit] The Governor of Hawaii is limited to two four-year terms. Inauguration takes place on the first Monday in December following a gubernatorial election. A single term ends at noon four years later. There is no lifetime limit on the number of times a governor may be elected, but a governor who has been elected to two consecutive terms must be out of office for at least one election cycle before being eligible once again for re-election. A Governor is: required to be at least 30 years old, required to have been a resident of Hawaii for five consecutive years previous to election, barred from other professions or paid positions during the term. Authority[edit] Flag of the Governor Flag of the Governor before Statehood in 1959 The Governor and Lieutenant Governor (running together on the same ticket) are the only two elected statewide executive officers in Hawaii. All other statewide executives (attorney general, auditor, etc.) are appointed by either the governor or the state legislature. Also, the Governor of Hawaii has wide-reaching authority comparably stronger than the other governors in the Union;[1] administrative powers are more centralized than that of most other states with little authority devolved to the counties, and unlike other states there are no local school districts. Included within the governor's sphere of jurisdiction is the power to appoint all judges of the various courts within the Hawaiian judicial system, subject to Senatorial approval. The state of Hawaii does not have fixed cabinet positions and departments. By law, the Governor of Hawaii has the power to create their cabinet and departments as needed as long as the executive department is composed of no more than twenty bodies and cabinet members. The Governor of Hawaii is also empowered to remove cabinet officers at will, with the exception of the Attorney General of Hawaii, who must be removed by an act of the Hawaii State Senate. Residence[edit] The Governor of Hawaii's official residence is Washington Place, a mansion that was once a minor royal palace of Queen Liliʻuokalani and her husband, Prince Consort John Owen Dominis. The mansion is located across the street from the Hawaii State Capitol, where the Office of the Governor is located, and is accessed from the Capitol through underground passages beneath Beretania Street in downtown Honolulu. Befitting of its history as a former royal palace, the Governors of Hawaii have entertained royal families from around the world at Washington Place including Queen Elizabeth II and Emperors Hirohito and Akihito. In 2001, the new mansion for the governor was built on the grounds of Washington Place, after the state decided to turn Washington Place into a museum, an idea supported by then-Governor Benjamin J. Cayetano and family. This new mansion: Hale Kia Aina was completed in 2002 and Cayetano became the first governor to live in it for a few days before leaving office. His successor, Governor Linda Lingle, became the first governor to begin a term in the new mansion. Despite the building of this new mansion, Washington Place remains the official residence of the governor and is still used for state dinners and other official functions. Succession[edit] Main article: Gubernatorial lines of succession in the United States § Hawaii See also[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Governors of Hawaii. Royal Governor of Hawaii Royal Governor of Maui Royal Governor of Oahu Royal Governor of Kauai References[edit] ^ Civil Beat article about the Hawaii governor's authorities External links[edit] Constitution of the State of Hawaii Office of the Governor of Hawaii v t e Chief executives of the United States Federal President of the United States State governors (current list) Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California list Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii list Idaho Illinois list Indiana list Iowa Kansas Kentucky list Louisiana Maine list Maryland list Massachusetts Michigan list Minnesota list Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire list New Jersey list New Mexico list New York list North Carolina list North Dakota list Ohio Oklahoma list Oregon list Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina list South Dakota list Tennessee list Texas list Utah Vermont list Virginia list Washington West Virginia Wisconsin list Wyoming Territorial (current list) American Samoa District of Columbia Guam Northern Mariana Islands Puerto Rico list United States Virgin Islands Defunct Cuba Dakota Territory Panama Canal Zone Philippine Islands (until 1935) Philippine Commonwealth (until 1946) Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands Santo Domingo v t e Governors of Hawaii Territorial Governor of Hawaiʻi (1898–1941) Dole Carter Frear Pinkham McCarthy Farrington Judd Poindexter Military Governor of Hawaii (1941–44) Short Emmons Richardson Territorial Governor of Hawaiʻi (1944–59) Stainback Long King Quinn Governor of Hawaiʻi (1959–present) Quinn Burns Ariyoshi Waiheʻe Cayetano Lingle Abercrombie Ige v t e Statewide political officials of Hawaii U.S. Senators Brian Schatz Mazie Hirono State government David Ige, Governor Josh Green, Lieutenant Governor Clare E. Connors, Attorney General (appointed) Curt Otaguro, Comptroller (appointed) Senate Ron Kouchi, President Michelle Kidani, Vice President Kalani English, Majority Leader Kurt Fevella, Minority Leader House Scott Saiki, Speaker Mark Nakashima, Vice Speaker Della Au Belatti, Majority Leader Gene Ward, Minority Leader Supreme Court Mark Recktenwald, Chief Justice Paula Nakayama Sabrina McKenna Richard Pollack Michael Wilson, Associate Justices v t e State of Hawaii Honolulu (capital) Topics Constitution Delegations Discovery and settlement Earthquakes Geography (Seamount) Government Hawaiianize History Hurricanes Islands ʻŌlelo Hawaiʻi (Hawaiian Language) Kūʻē Petitions Music People State symbols Tourism Transportation Unification Seal of Hawaii Society Hawaiian architecture Crime Culture Demographics Economy Education Energy Folklore Media Politics Sports Main islands Hawaiʻi Kahoʻolawe Kauaʻi Lānaʻi Maui Molokaʻi Niʻihau Oʻahu Northwestern Islands French Frigate Shoals Gardner Kure Laysan Lisianski Maro Reef Necker Nihoa Pearl and Hermes Communities Hilo Honolulu Kahului Kāneʻohe Līhuʻe Pearl City Waipahu Counties Hawaiʻi Honolulu Kalawao Kauaʻi Maui Sovereignty Movement Hawaiian Renaissance 2008 occupation of Iolani Palace Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Governor_of_Hawaii&oldid=940022472" Categories: Governors of Hawaii 1959 establishments in Hawaii Hidden categories: Use mdy dates from July 2018 Use American English from July 2018 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Articles containing Hawaiian-language text Commons category link is on Wikidata Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Français Italiano 日本語 Simple English 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 10 February 2020, at 02:42 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view