https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Governor_of_Maryland
Governor of Maryland - Wikipedia
Governor of Maryland From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search For a list, see List of governors of Maryland. Governor of the State of Maryland Incumbent Larry Hogan since January 21, 2015 Style Governor (informal) The Honorable (formal) Status Head of State Head of Government Residence Government House Seat Annapolis, Maryland Term length Four years, renewable once Constituting instrument Maryland Constitution of 1776 Inaugural holder Thomas Johnson Formation March 21, 1777 (243 years ago) (1777-03-21) Deputy Lieutenant Governor of Maryland Salary $150,000 (2013)[1] Website governor.maryland.gov The governor of the State of Maryland heads the executive branch of the government of the State of Maryland, and is the commander-in-chief of the state's National Guard units. The governor is the highest-ranking official in the state and has a broad range of appointive powers in both the state and local governments, as specified by the Maryland Constitution (1867, and revisions/amendments). Because of the extent of these constitutional powers, the governor of Maryland has been ranked as being among the most powerful governors in the United States.[2] The current governor is Larry Hogan, a Republican who took office on January 21, 2015.[3] Contents 1 Selection and qualifications 2 Functions and responsibilities 2.1 Appropriations 2.2 Appointment powers 2.3 Executive council 2.4 Other powers and responsibilities 2.5 The governor's staff 3 History and evolution of the office 3.1 1600s–1800s 3.2 1900s–present 4 Lieutenant governor 5 See also 6 References 7 External links Selection and qualifications[edit] Like most state chief executives in the United States, the governor is elected by the citizens of Maryland to serve a four-year term. Under the Constitution of Maryland, the governor can run any number of times, but not more than twice in a row.[4] This makes it possible for a two-term governor to run for the office again after remaining out of office for at least one term. An eligible candidate for governor must be at least 30 years old, and also a resident of and a registered voter in Maryland for the five years preceding the election.[4] If a candidate meets this minimum requirement, he or she must file his or her candidacy with the Maryland State Board of Elections, pay a filing fee, file a financial disclosure, and create a legal campaign financial body.[5] The governor, like all statewide officials in Maryland, is elected in the even-numbered years in which the election for President of the United States does not occur.[4] Functions and responsibilities[edit] As the chief executive of the State of Maryland, the governor heads the executive branch of government, which includes all state executive departments and agencies, as well as advisory boards, commissions, committees, and task forces. The main constitutional responsibility of the governor of Maryland, and any other State's chief executive, is to carry out the business of the state and to enforce the laws passed by the Legislature. The governor also has some say in these laws, since the governor has the ability to veto any bill sent to his or her desk by the Maryland General Assembly, though the assembly may override that veto. The governor is also given a number of more specific powers as relates to appropriations of state funds, the appointment of state officials, and also a variety of less prominent and less commonly utilized powers.[4] Appropriations[edit] Every year, the governor must present a proposed budget to the Maryland General Assembly. After receiving the proposed budget, the assembly is then allowed to decrease any portion of the budget for the executive branch, but it may never increase it or transfer funds between executive departments. The assembly may, however, increase funds for the Legislative and Judicial branches of government.[6] The governor has the power to veto any law that is passed by the General Assembly, including a "line item veto", which can be used to strike certain portions of appropriations bills. The Legislature then has the power to override a Governor's veto by vote of three-fifths (60%) of the number of members in each house.[4] The governor also sits on the board of public works, whose other two members are the comptroller and the treasurer. This board has broad powers in overseeing and approving the spending of state funds. They must approve state expenditures of all general funds and capital improvement funds, excluding expenditures for the construction of state roads, bridges, and highways. It has the power to solicit loans on its own accord either to meet a deficit or in anticipation of other revenues, in addition to approving expenditures of funds from loans authorized by the General Assembly.[7] Appointment powers[edit] The governor appoints almost all military and civil officers of the state government, subject to advice and consent of the Maryland State Senate. The governor also appoints certain boards and commissions in each of the 24 Counties and in Baltimore City, such as local Boards of Elections, commissions notaries public, and appoints officers to fill vacancies in the elected offices of Attorney General and Comptroller.[4] Should a vacancy arise in either of the two houses of the General Assembly, the governor also fills that vacancy, though the governor must choose from among the recommendations of the local party organization to which the person leaving the vacancy belonged.[8] Any officer appointed by the governor, except a member of the General Assembly, is removable by him or her, if there is a legitimate cause for removal. Among the most prominent of the governor's appointees are the 24 secretaries and heads of departments that currently make up the governor's Cabinet, also known as the executive council.[4] Executive council[edit] The governor of Maryland is the chairman of the governor's executive council (or Cabinet) which coordinates all state government functions. This is composed of the following members, all of whom, except the lieutenant governor, are appointed by the governor with the advice and consent of the Maryland State Senate as heads of executive departments:[9] Lieutenant governor- Boyd Rutherford Secretary of State- John C. Wobensmith Secretary of Aging- Rona E. Kramer Secretary of Agriculture- Joe Bartenfelder Secretary of Budget and Management- David Brinkley Secretary of Business and Economic Development- R. Michael Gill Secretary of Disabilities-Carol Beatty State Superintendent of Schools (appointed by the State Board of Education to direct the Maryland State Department of Education)- Lillian M. Lowery Secretary of Environment- Ben Grumbles Secretary of General Services- C. Gail Bassette Secretary of Health and Mental Hygiene- Van Mitchell Secretary of Housing and Community Development- Kenneth C. Holt Secretary of Human Resources- Sam Maholtra Secretary of Information Technology- David Garcia Secretary of Juvenile Services- Sam J. Abed Secretary of Labor, Licensing, and Regulation- Kelly Schulz Secretary of Natural Resources- Mark Belton Secretary of Planning- Wendi W. Peters[10] Secretary of Public Safety and Correctional Services- Stephen T. Moyer Secretary of State Police (commanding officer of the Maryland State Police)- Col. William Pallozzi Secretary of Transportation- Peter Rahn Secretary of Veterans Affairs- George W. Owings III Secretary of Higher Education (head of the Maryland Higher Education Commission)- Dr. James D. Fielder Adjutant General (head of the Maryland Military Department)- Gen. Linda Singh Other members of the governor's staff may be invited to Cabinet meetings as "attendees".[9] The governor also oversees several sub-cabinets that coordinate the activities of a certain function of state government that involves several state departments or agencies. Currently, these are the Base Realignment and Closure Subcabinet, BayStat Subcabinet, Chesapeake Bay cabinet, Children's Cabinet, Governor's Subcabinet for International Affairs, Smart Growth Subcabinet, and Workforce Creation Subcabinet.[11] Other powers and responsibilities[edit] The governor is the commander-in-chief of the military forces of the state: the Maryland Army National Guard and Air National Guard and the Maryland Defense Force, except when these forces have been called into Federal service, which the Federal government under the President of the United States now has the authority to do. In times of public emergency, the governor may exercise emergency powers, including the mobilization of these military forces. In the area of criminal justice, the governor may grant pardons to criminals, commute the sentences of prisoners, or remit fines and forfeitures imposed on people who have been convicted, jailed, or fined for violations of state laws. In both these areas, and a variety of others, the governor sits on state and interstate boards and commissions with varying powers. The governor is also obligated to report on the conditions of the state at any time during the year, though this traditionally happens in a "State of the State" Address each January at the beginning of the annual General Assembly session.[4] The governor's staff[edit] In addition to the various departments and agencies under gubernatorial control, the governor has an executive administrative staff that assist in coordinating the executive duties. This staff is led by a Chief of Staff, and includes five offices: Intergovernmental Relations, Legal Counsel, Legislative and Policy, Press, and the Governor's Office in Washington, D.C.. The chief of staff has a number of deputies to assist in running these departments. The governor's staff is appointed and therefore largely exempt from state civil service laws.[4] History and evolution of the office[edit] 1600s–1800s[edit] Thomas Johnson, the first Governor of Maryland after independence. He served from 1777-1779. During the Colonial period, Maryland's Proprietors, the Barons and Lords of Baltimore, who generally remained in the Kingdom of England, chose who would serve as the proprietary Governor of Maryland on their behalf. Leonard Calvert (1606-1647), youngest brother of the second Lord Baltimore, Cecilius Calvert (1605-1675), and the first Lord Proprietor, came with the first settlers in March 1634 to serve as first Governor of the colonial Province of Maryland until his death in 1647. Between 1692, when the Baltimores lost control, and 1715, Maryland was a direct Royal Colony, and the governor was appointed by the British Monarch. The Lords of Baltimore regained their Royal Charter in 1715, under the British monarchs of the German House of Hanover, and then under the fifth and sixth Lord Baltimores, they resumed choosing the governors until the beginning of the American Revolution (1775-1783).[4] The first Governor of an independent state chosen to break this chain of colonial Governors was Thomas Johnson (1732-1819) of Frederick County, who took office on March 21, 1777. [12] [13] Under the first Maryland Constitution of 1776 for the independent state, the governor was chosen for one-year terms by both houses of the General Assembly. An 1838 constitutional amendment passed the choice to the citizens allowed voters to elect the governor to a three-year term from one of three rotating gubernatorial districts: eastern, southern, and western parts of the state. At each election, only voters from a single gubernatorial election district selected the governor. A four-year term was established by the second Maryland Constitution of 1851, and geographic requirements were removed by the third Constitution of 1864 during the American Civil War.[14] The fourth and current constitution was ratified by the people after the war in 1867. An amendment in 1922, added article XVII, title "Quadrennial Elections," to the 1867 state constitution and set the next election year to be 1926 and every four years thereafter,[15] thereby shifting from the historical off-year cycle (...1915, 1919, 1923) to the present mid-term election cycle. From 1777 to 1870, the governor resided in the Jennings House in Annapolis. Located on the site of the future expanded campus of the adjacent United States Naval Academy (founded 1845), the house was later sold to the Academy in 1869 after it returned from its northern hiatus in Rhode Island during the American Civil War (1861-1865). It was unfortunately razed in 1901 for additional USNA buildings. Since 1870, the governor of the Old Line State has resided in the Government House, originally a Victorian style architecture red brick mansion (later rebuilt / renovated in the 1930s into a Georgian styled mansion to match other colonial / Georgian-Federal era styled architecture state buildings and residences in the historic city). It is located on State Circle adjacent to the colonial era Maryland State House built 1772-1797. In addition to being the residence for the governor and his family, Government House has a number of public rooms that are used by the governor on official occasions.[16] 1900s–present[edit] Former Maryland Governor and U.S. Vice President Spiro T. Agnew. Spiro T. Agnew, who was the 55th governor of Maryland from 1967–1969, later served as the 39th Vice-President of the United States for a time of four years under 37th President Richard M. Nixon during his first term and beginning of second, and Agnew is, thus far, the highest-ranking Marylander (along with 19th century Chief Justice Roger B. Taney) in public service in the history of the United States.[17] Following his resignation due to pleading "nolo contender / no contest" to federal legal charges of corruption during his earlier terms as Baltimore County Executive, Maryland Governor and into the Vice Presidency, Agnew's official gubernatorial portrait was removed Damnatio memoriae from the Maryland State House Governor's Reception Room from 1979 until 1995. Then-Governor Parris Glendening stated that in re-including Agnew's portrait that it was not up to anyone to alter history, whether for good or bad, citing the famous novel by George Orwell, Nineteen Eighty-Four. [18] As of 2015, Maryland has yet to have been served by a female governor.[17] However, women were the runners-up in four gubernatorial elections (in 1974, 1994, 1998, and 2002), three Republicans and one Democrat.[19] In addition, one woman has served as the lieutenant governor, Kathleen Kennedy Townsend, under Democratic Gov. Parris Glendening from 1995 to 2003.[17] Another woman, Kristen Cox, who was the Secretary of Disabilities, unsuccessfully ran for Lieutenant Governor as the running mate of then incumbent Republican Governor Robert Ehrlich, when the lieutenant governor at that time, Michael Steele, left office to run for the U.S. Senate. Cox was a unique person to run for that office, not only because she is a woman, but also because she is legally blind.[20] Lieutenant governor[edit] Main article: Lieutenant Governor of Maryland In 1971, the office of Lieutenant Governor of Maryland, which had existed for only a few years in the 1860s, was re-instituted by an amendment to the Maryland Constitution. The lieutenant governor is a weak office compared to other counterparts (in other states including Texas, the lieutenant governor is the president of the state's Senate, while in California the lieutenant governor assumes all of the governor's powers when the sitting governor is out of the state), as it only possesses the powers and duties that the governor assigns to him or her. The lieutenant governor is elected on the same ballot with the governor, and to the same term of office as the governor. The lieutenant governor succeeds to the governorship only if there is a vacancy in that office.[21] Despite the governor and Lieutenant Governor being elected on the same party ticket, very often there have been public rifts between the two; for instance Gov. Marvin Mandel and Lt. Gov. Blair Lee IV; Gov. Harry R. Hughes and Lt. Gov. Samuel W. Bogley III; Gov. Schaefer and Lt. Gov. Melvin A. Steinberg., and Gov. Parris Glendening and Lt. Gov. Kathleen Kennedy Townsend. [22] No Lieutenant Governor of Maryland has yet been elected as the governor in future elections, or permanently succeeded to the governor's office due to a vacancy (which would be created by the resignation, death, or removal of the sitting Governor), although Blair Lee III served as acting Governor from June 4, 1977, until January 15, 1979 while Governor Marvin Mandel was serving a sentence for mail fraud and racketeering (consequently, in a modern example of Damnatio memoriae, Mandel's official gubernatorial portrait was not hung in the Maryland State House Governor's Reception Room until 1993).[17] See also[edit] Government of Maryland Lieutenant Governor of Maryland Maryland gubernatorial elections List of colonial governors of Maryland References[edit] ^ "CSG Releases 2013 Governor Salaries". The Council of State Governments. June 25, 2013. Retrieved November 23, 2014. ^ Prah, Pamela (March 9, 2007). "Massachusetts gov rated most powerful". Stateline.Org. Archived from the original on 12 April 2012. Retrieved 2007-06-25. ^ Wagner, John; Johnson, Jenna (November 5, 2014). "Republican Larry Hogan wins Md. governor's race in stunning upset". The Washington Post. Retrieved November 5, 2014. ^ a b c d e f g h i j "Maryland Governor: Origins and Functions". Maryland Manual Online. Maryland State Archives. 2006. Retrieved 2007-06-27. ^ "Requirements for Filing Candidacy". Maryland State Board of Elections. Retrieved 2007-07-11. ^ "Budget and Fiscal Policy". Maryland Department of Legislative Services. Archived from the original on 2007-06-15. Retrieved 2007-07-11. ^ "Maryland Board of Public Works: Origin and Functions". Maryland Manual Online. Maryland State Archives. Retrieved 2007-07-11. ^ Tallman, Douglas (2005-10-26). "Lawton appointed to District 18 seat". The Gazette. Retrieved 2007-06-27. ^ a b "Maryland Governor's Executive Council (Cabinet)". msa.maryland.gov. ^ "Governor Hogan Swears In Planning Secretary". mdplanningblog.com. 27 July 2016. ^ Maryland Manual Online http://www.msa.md.gov/msa/mdmanual/08conoff/cabinet/html/01list.html ^ 01, Conference Room. "Thomas Johnson, MSA SC 3520-743". msa.maryland.gov. Retrieved 2017-01-25.CS1 maint: numeric names: authors list (link) ^ root. "Thomas Johnson". www.nga.org. Retrieved 2017-01-25. ^ "Historical List Gubernatorial Elections in Maryland 1838-2014". Archives of Maryland. ^ "Amendments to Maryland Constitutions". Archives of Maryland Online. Retrieved 2018-05-10. ^ "Government House, A Maryland Treasure". Maryland State Archives. Retrieved 2007-06-27. ^ a b c d "Historical List, Governors of Maryland". Maryland State Archives. Retrieved 2015-07-18. ^ Press Conference statement, April 13, 1995, http://www.msa.md.gov/msa/stagser/s1259/121/7044/html/7044.html ^ "Elections by Year". Maryland State Board of Elections. Retrieved 2007-06-27. and Duggan, Paul (7 October 2005), "Louise Gore, Force in Md. GOP, Dies", Washington Post, retrieved 19 February 2012 ^ Otto, Mary; Aratani, Lori (2006-06-30). "Ehrlich Picks Cabinet Member Cox for Ticket". The Washington Post. Retrieved 2007-06-27. ^ "Lieutenant Governor: Origins and Functions". Maryland Manual Online. Maryland State Archives. 2006. Retrieved 2007-06-27. ^ Koenig, Sarah (November 26, 2002). "For this pair, the talking is over". The Baltimore Sun. ISSN 1930-8965. OCLC 740978632. Archived from the original on May 22, 2011. Retrieved April 19, 2011. External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Governors of Maryland. Official Official website General information Governor of Maryland at Ballotpedia Works by or about Governors of Maryland at Internet Archive Works by or about Governor of Maryland in libraries (WorldCat catalog) v t e Government of Maryland Executive Governor (List) Lt. Governor Secretary of State Archives Agriculture Education Environment General Services Health Housing & Community Development Labor, Licensing & Regulation Natural Resources Planning Transportation Legislative General Assembly Senate (Members, President) House of Delegates (Members, Speaker) Judicial Court of Appeals (Judges) Court of Special Appeals Circuit Court District Court Constitutional offices Comptroller Treasurer Attorney General Board of Public Works Independent agencies Commission on Human Relations Maryland Higher Education Commission Insurance Administration Lottery Office of Administrative Hearings Public Service Commission State Commission on Criminal Sentencing Policy v t e Maryland statewide elected officials Governor Lieutenant Governor Attorney General Comptroller v t e State of Maryland Annapolis (capital) Topics Index Cities Government History Mass media Newspapers Radio TV People Congressional delegations Congressional maps Tourist attractions Seal of Maryland Society Culture Crime Demographics Economy Education Politics Sports Regions Allegheny Mountains Atlantic coastal plain Baltimore–Washington metro area Blue Ridge Chesapeake Cumberland Valley Delaware Valley Delmarva Peninsula Eastern Shore Piedmont Ridge and Valley Southern Maryland Western Maryland Western Shore Cities Aberdeen Annapolis Baltimore Bowie Brunswick Cambridge College Park Cumberland Frederick Gaithersburg Greenbelt Hagerstown Havre de Grace Laurel Pocomoke City Rockville Salisbury Takoma Park Westminster Towns Bel Air Denton Easton Elkton Leonardtown Ocean City Port Deposit Upper Marlboro CDPs Arbutus Arnold Aspen Hill Baltimore Highlands Bethesda Camp Springs Carney Catonsville Chillum Clinton Cockeysville-Hunt Valley Colesville Columbia Crofton Dundalk Edgewood Eldersburg Elkridge Ellicott City Essex Fairland Ferndale Fort Washington Germantown Glen Burnie Green Haven Hillcrest Heights Landover Langley Park Lanham Lansdowne Lochearn Lutherville Middle River Milford Mill Montgomery Village Odenton Olney Owings Mills Oxon Hill Parkville Perry Hall Pikesville Potomac Randallstown Redland Reisterstown Rosedale St. Charles Severn Severna Park Silver Spring South Gate Suitland Timonium Towson Urbana Waldorf Wheaton-Glenmont White Oak Woodlawn Counties Allegany Anne Arundel Baltimore Calvert Caroline Carroll Cecil Charles Dorchester Frederick Garrett Harford Howard Kent Montgomery Prince George's Queen Anne's St. Mary's Somerset Talbot Washington Wicomico Worcester v t e Chief executives of the United States Federal President of the United States State governors (current list) Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California list Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii list Idaho Illinois list Indiana list Iowa Kansas Kentucky list Louisiana Maine list Maryland list Massachusetts Michigan list Minnesota list Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire list New Jersey list New Mexico list New York list North Carolina list North Dakota list Ohio Oklahoma list Oregon list Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina list South Dakota list Tennessee list Texas list Utah Vermont list Virginia list Washington West Virginia Wisconsin list Wyoming Territorial (current list) American Samoa District of Columbia Guam Northern Mariana Islands Puerto Rico list United States Virgin Islands Defunct Cuba Dakota Territory Panama Canal Zone Philippine Islands (until 1935) Philippine Commonwealth (until 1946) Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands Santo Domingo Authority control GND: 5301736-5 LCCN: n50071391 SNAC: w6hx574c VIAF: 148895459 WorldCat Identities: lccn-n50071391 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Governor_of_Maryland&oldid=947310819" Categories: Governors of Maryland 1777 establishments in Maryland State constitutional officers of Maryland Hidden categories: CS1 maint: numeric names: authors list Commons category link from Wikidata Articles with Internet Archive links Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers Wikipedia articles with SNAC-ID identifiers Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers Wikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiers Good articles Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Italiano Polski Simple English Edit links This page was last edited on 25 March 2020, at 15:26 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view