https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Governor_of_Minnesota
Governor of Minnesota - Wikipedia
Governor of Minnesota From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search head of state and of government of the U.S. state of Minnesota For a list, see List of governors of Minnesota. Governor of Minnesota State seal Incumbent Tim Walz since January 7, 2019 Style The Honorable Residence Minnesota Governor's Residence Term length Four years, no term limit Inaugural holder Henry H. Sibley Formation May 24, 1858 Deputy Lieutenant Governor of Minnesota Salary $127,629 Website Official website Minnesota This article is part of a series on the politics and government of Minnesota Constitution Executive Governor: Tim Walz Lieutenant Governor: Peggy Flanagan Secretary of State: Steve Simon State Auditor: Julie Blaha Attorney General: Keith Ellison Cabinet Executive Council Legislature 91st Legislature Senate President: Jeremy Miller Majority Leader: Paul Gazelka Minority Leader: Susan Kent House of Representatives Speaker: Melissa Hortman Majority Leader: Ryan Winkler Minority Leader: Kurt Daudt Judiciary Supreme Court Court of Appeals District Courts Elections Political parties Political party strength Subdivisions Counties Cities Townships Federal representation United States Senate Amy Klobuchar (DFL) Tina Smith (DFL) United States House of Representatives 1: Jim Hagedorn (R) 2: Angie Craig (DFL) 3: Dean Phillips (DFL) 4: Betty McCollum (DFL) 5: Ilhan Omar (DFL) 6: Tom Emmer (R) 7: Collin Peterson (DFL) 8: Pete Stauber (R) Politics of the United States Politics portal v t e The Governor of Minnesota is the chief executive of the U.S. state of Minnesota, leading the state's executive branch. Forty people have been governor of Minnesota, though historically there were also three governors of Minnesota Territory. Alexander Ramsey, the first territorial governor, also served as state governor several years later. State governors are elected to office by popular vote, but territorial governors were appointed to the office by the United States president. The current governor of Minnesota is Tim Walz of the Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party (DFL). Contents 1 Powers and qualifications 2 Cabinet 3 Residence 4 Succession 5 Gallery 6 See also 7 References 8 External links Powers and qualifications[edit] Similar to the U.S. President, the governor has veto power over bills passed by the Minnesota State Legislature. As in most states, but unlike the U.S. President, the governor can also make line-item vetoes, where specific provisions in bills can be stripped out while allowing the overall bill to be signed into law. The governor of Minnesota must be 25 years old upon assuming office, and must have been a Minnesota resident for one year before the election. Since a 1958 amendment to the Minnesota Constitution governors are elected to four-year terms, with no limits on the number of terms they may serve.[1] Cabinet[edit] The governor has a cabinet consisting of the leaders of various state departments. The governor appoints these department heads, who, other than the head of the Department of Military Affairs and the chairs of the Metropolitan Council and the Metropolitan Sports Facilities Commission, are called commissioners. Cabinet members include:[2] Cabinet Office Incumbent Term began Commissioner of Administration Alice Roberts-Davis January 7, 2019 Commissioner of Agriculture Thom Petersen January 7, 2019 Commissioner of Commerce Steve Kelly January 7, 2019 Commissioner of Corrections Paul Schnell January 7, 2019 Commissioner of Education Mary Cathryn Ricker January 7, 2019 Commissioner of Employment and Economic Development Steve Grove January 7, 2019 Commissioner of Health Jan Malcolm[3] January 30, 2018 Commissioner of the Minnesota Office of Higher Education Dennis Olsen[citation needed] January 7, 2019 Commissioner of the Minnesota Housing Finance Agency Jennifer Ho January 7, 2019 Commissioner of Human Rights Rebecca Lucero[4] January 3[5], 2019 Commissioner of Human Services Jodi Harpstead[6] August, 2019 Commissioner of the Iron Range Resources and Rehabilitation Board Mark Phillips January 19, 2015 Commissioner and Chief Information Officer of MN.IT Services Johanna Clyborne February 18, 2018 Commissioner of Labor and Industry Nancy Leppink January 7, 2019 Commissioner of Management and Budget Myron Frans January 5, 2015 Commissioner of the Minnesota Bureau of Mediation Services Janet Johnson January 7, 2019 Chairperson of the Metropolitan Council Nora Slawik January 7, 2019 Adjutant General Maj. Gen. Jon Jensen November 4, 2017 Commissioner of Natural Resources Sarah Strommen January 7, 2019 Commissioner of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency Laura Bishop January 7, 2019 Commissioner of Public Safety John Harrington January 7, 2019 Commissioner of Revenue Cynthia Bauerly January 5, 2015 Commissioner of Transportation Margaret Anderson Kelliher January 7, 2019 Commissioner of Veterans Affairs Larry Herke January 7, 2019 Residence[edit] Main article: Minnesota Governor's Residence The Minnesota Governor's Residence is located in Saint Paul, at 1006 Summit Avenue. Succession[edit] Main article: Gubernatorial lines of succession in the United States § Minnesota Gallery[edit] Henry Hastings Sibley, the first Governor of Minnesota Alexander Ramsey, the second Governor of Minnesota Harold Stassen, the 25th Governor of Minnesota Arne Carlson, the 37th Governor of Minnesota Jesse Ventura, the 38th Governor of Minnesota Tim Pawlenty, the 39th Governor of Minnesota Mark Dayton, the 40th Governor of Minnesota Tim Walz, the 41st and current Governor of Minnesota See also[edit] List of Minnesota gubernatorial elections List of Lieutenant Governors of Minnesota Minnesota Secretary of State Minnesota Attorney General Minnesota State Auditor Minnesota State Treasurer (office abolished January 6, 2003) Politics of Minnesota References[edit] ^ "The Green Papers: Minnesota 2006 Midterm Election". Richard E. Berg-Andersson, Research and Commentary. Retrieved 2008-09-05. ^ Governor's Cabinet ^ "Commissioner Jan Malcolm". www.health.state.mn.us. Retrieved 2020-03-17. ^ "commissioner". Minnesota.gov. Retrieved 2020-03-17. ^ "commissioner". Minnesota.gov. Retrieved 2020-03-17. ^ jon. wittman. "Commissioner Jodi Harpstead". Minnesota Department of Human Services. Retrieved 2020-03-17. External links[edit] Website of the governor and lieutenant governor Minnesota Constitution, Article V v t e Governors of Minnesota Territorial (1849–58) Ramsey Gorman Medary State (since 1858) Sibley Ramsey Swift Miller Marshall Austin Davis Pillsbury Hubbard McGill Merriam Nelson Clough Lind Van Sant Johnson Eberhart Hammond Burnquist Preus Christianson Olson Petersen Benson Stassen Thye Youngdahl E. Anderson Freeman Andersen Rolvaag LeVander W. Anderson Perpich Quie Perpich Carlson Ventura Pawlenty Dayton Walz v t e Chief executives of the United States Federal President of the United States State governors (current list) Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California list Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii list Idaho Illinois list Indiana list Iowa Kansas Kentucky list Louisiana Maine list Maryland list Massachusetts Michigan list Minnesota list Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire list New Jersey list New Mexico list New York list North Carolina list North Dakota list Ohio Oklahoma list Oregon list Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina list South Dakota list Tennessee list Texas list Utah Vermont list Virginia list Washington West Virginia Wisconsin list Wyoming Territorial (current list) American Samoa District of Columbia Guam Northern Mariana Islands Puerto Rico list United States Virgin Islands Defunct Cuba Dakota Territory Panama Canal Zone Philippine Islands (until 1935) Philippine Commonwealth (until 1946) Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands Santo Domingo v t e Minnesota statewide elected officials Governor (List) Lieutenant Governor Secretary of State Attorney General Auditor Treasurer (1858-2003) v t e Government of Minnesota Executive elected Governor Lieutenant Governor Secretary of State Attorney General Auditor Treasurer (1858—2003) Executive agencies Administration Agriculture Commerce Corrections Education Employment and Economic Development Health Higher Education Housing Finance Human Rights Human Services Indian Affairs Iron Range Resources and Rehabilitation Labor and Industry Lottery Management and Budget Mediation Services Military Affairs Natural Resources Pollution Control Public Safety Public Utilities Revenue State Colleges and Universities System State Patrol Transportation Veterans Affairs Legislative Legislature Senate House Judicial Supreme Court Court of Appeals Tax Court Worker's Compensation District Courts Regional Regional Development Commissions Soil and water conservation districts Watershed districts Public state-related entities University of Minnesota system Metropolitan Council Related Capitol Constitution Politics Territorial legislature Tribal government Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Governor_of_Minnesota&oldid=945925590" Categories: State constitutional officers of Minnesota Governors of Minnesota Hidden categories: Articles with short description All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from January 2019 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Italiano Simple English 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 17 March 2020, at 00:16 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view