https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Governor_of_New_Mexico
Governor of New Mexico - Wikipedia
Governor of New Mexico From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Head of state and of government of the U.S. state of New Mexico For a list, see List of governors of New Mexico. Governor of New Mexico Spanish: Gobernadora de Nuevo México Seal of the Governor Incumbent Michelle Lujan Grisham since January 1, 2019 (2019-01-01) Style Governor (informal) The Honorable (formal) Status Head of State Head of Government Residence New Mexico Governor's Mansion Term length Four years, renewable once consecutively Constituting instrument New Mexico Constitution Precursor Governor of Nuevo México Spanish Governors Mexican Governors Governor of New Mexico Territory Inaugural holder William C. McDonald Formation January 14, 1912 (108 years ago) (1912-01-14) Deputy Lieutenant Governor of New Mexico Salary $110,000 (2013)[1] Website Official website New Mexico This article is part of a series on the politics and government of New Mexico Constitution United States Constitution New Mexico Constitution Executive Governor Michelle Lujan Grisham (D) (list) Lieutenant Governor Howie Morales (D) Secretary of State Maggie Toulouse Oliver (D) Attorney General Hector Balderas (D) State Auditor Brian Colón (D) State Treasurer Tim Eichenberg (D) Commissioner of Public Lands Stephanie Garcia Richard (D) Public Regulation Commission Cynthia B. Hall (D) Jefferson Byrd (R) Valerie Espinoza (D) Theresa Becenti-Aguilar (D) Stephen Fischmann (D) Governor's Cabinet and State Agencies Legislature State Senate President Howie Morales (D) President pro tempore Mary Kay Papen (D) Majority leader Peter Wirth (D) Minority leader Stuart Ingle (R) House of Representatives Speaker Brian Egolf (D) Majority leader Sheryl Williams Stapleton (D) Minority leader James G. Townsend (R) Judiciary Supreme Court Court of Appeals New Mexico District Courts Magistrate Court Bernalillo County Metropolitan Court Municipal Court Probate Court See also: U.S. District Court of New Mexico Elections Political parties Qualified New Mexico Parties Democratic Party Republican Party Green Party Libertarian Party National minor parties Inferior Jurisdictions Counties Cities census-designated places School districts Federal Representation U.S. Senators Tom Udall (D) Martin Heinrich (D) U.S. Representatives 1: Deb Haaland (D) 2: Xochitl Torres Small (D) 3: Ben Ray Luján (D) Politics of the United States Politics portal v t e The Governor of New Mexico (Spanish: Gobernador de Nuevo México) is the chief executive of the state of New Mexico. The governor is the head of the executive branch of New Mexico's state government and the commander-in-chief of the state's military forces. Responsibilities include making annual State of the State addresses to the New Mexico State Legislature, submitting the budget, and ensuring that state laws are enforced. The officeholder is afforded the courtesy title of The Honorable for life. As noted in the governor's seal, this gubernatorial office is a scion of the Spanish and Mexican governors of Nuevo México (1598) and the governors of the New Mexico Territory (1851). The current governor is Michelle Lujan Grisham, a Democrat, who was sworn in as the 32nd Governor of the state of New Mexico on January 1, 2019. She is the second elected female governor of the state, the first being her Republican predecessor Susana Martinez who was also the first Latina state governor in the United States.[2] Contents 1 History 2 Election to the governorship 2.1 Requirements to hold office 2.2 Term(s) of office 3 Relationship with Lieutenant Governor of New Mexico 4 Powers 5 Residence 6 Line of succession 7 References 8 External links History[edit] During the occupation of New Mexico by the United States Military starting in 1846, a military governor was appointed to oversee the area; military governors, at times, were assisted by civilian governors. In 1850, New Mexico was organized as a Territory, and the governor was appointed by the President of the United States. The office of Governor of the State of New Mexico was created in 1912 when New Mexico was officially admitted to the United States as the 47th state. Election to the governorship[edit] Requirements to hold office[edit] Section Three of Article V of the New Mexico Constitution establishes the requirements a person must meet in order to become governor. The governor must be a citizen of the United States, be at least 30 years old, and have been a resident of New Mexico for at least five years prior to election. Term(s) of office[edit] Under Section One of Article V of the New Mexico Constitution, a governor may be elected any number of times, but not more than twice in a row. If a governor serves two consecutive terms, he or she is eligible to run again after sitting out one full term. Relationship with Lieutenant Governor of New Mexico[edit] The Lieutenant Governor of New Mexico is elected jointly as the running mate of the gubernatorial candidate in the general election. Powers[edit] While the governor heads the Executive Branch of the New Mexico state government, the governor does not have absolute power. Other state executives, such as the lieutenant governor, the Secretary of State, and the attorney general are also elected to office. Residence[edit] Since 1954, the Governor of New Mexico has resided in the New Mexico Governor's Mansion. Prior to its construction, the governor's residence was located adjacent to the New Mexico State Capitol in downtown Santa Fe. Before 1909, the governor resided in the Palace of the Governors, which is listed as a National Historic Landmark. The Palace of the Governors is the oldest continuously occupied public building in the United States.[citation needed] Line of succession[edit] See also: Gubernatorial lines of succession in the United States § New Mexico According to Section Seven of Article V of the New Mexico Constitution, in the event of the death, resignation, removal, impeachment, absence from the state, failure to qualify, or incapacity due to illness of the governor, the lieutenant governor is the first person in the order of succession and thus serves as governor. If there is no lieutenant governor, or that person is unable to perform the duties of governor, the Secretary of State serves as governor. If there is no Secretary of State, the President pro Tempore of the Senate serves as governor. If there is no President pro Tempore of the Senate, or if that person is unable to perform the duties of governor, then the Speaker of the House serves as governor. # Office Current officer May succeed to governorship Governor of New Mexico Michelle Lujan Grisham 1 Lieutenant Governor of New Mexico Howie Morales 2 Secretary of State of New Mexico Maggie Toulouse Oliver 3 President Pro Tempore of the Senate Mary Kay Papen 4 Speaker of the House of Representatives Brian Egolf May serve as Emergency Interim Successor 5 Attorney General of New Mexico Hector Balderas 6 State Auditor Brian Colón 7 State Treasurer Tim Eichenberg 8 Commissioner of Public Lands Stephanie Garcia Richard 9 Public Regulation Commission, Chair Jefferson Byrd 10 Public Regulation Commissioner Cynthia B. Hall 11 Public Regulation Commissioner Valerie Espinoza 12 Public Regulation Commissioner Theresa Becenti–Aguilar 13 Public Regulation Commissioner Sandy Jones References[edit] ^ "CSG Releases 2013 Governor Salaries". The Council of State Governments. June 25, 2013. Retrieved November 23, 2014. ^ "New Mexico's Susana Martinez 1st woman, 1st Hispanic to lead GOP Governors Association | Fox News Latino". Latino.foxnews.com. November 20, 2015. Retrieved February 23, 2016. External links[edit] Official website v t e New Mexico statewide elected officials Governor Lieutenant Governor Secretary of State Attorney General Treasurer Auditor Commissioner of Public Lands v t e Chief executives of the United States Federal President of the United States State governors (current list) Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California list Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii list Idaho Illinois list Indiana list Iowa Kansas Kentucky list Louisiana Maine list Maryland list Massachusetts Michigan list Minnesota list Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire list New Jersey list New Mexico list New York list North Carolina list North Dakota list Ohio Oklahoma list Oregon list Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina list South Dakota list Tennessee list Texas list Utah Vermont list Virginia list Washington West Virginia Wisconsin list Wyoming Territorial (current list) American Samoa District of Columbia Guam Northern Mariana Islands Puerto Rico list United States Virgin Islands Defunct Cuba Dakota Territory Panama Canal Zone Philippine Islands (until 1935) Philippine Commonwealth (until 1946) Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands Santo Domingo Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Governor_of_New_Mexico&oldid=951484445" Categories: State constitutional officers of New Mexico Hidden categories: Articles with short description Use mdy dates from July 2018 Use American English from July 2018 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Articles containing Spanish-language text All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from March 2016 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Italiano Simple English Suomi Edit links This page was last edited on 17 April 2020, at 11:43 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view