https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Governor_of_New_York
Governor of New York - Wikipedia
Governor of New York From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search For a list, see List of governors of New York. Head of state and of government of the U.S. state of New York Governor of New York Seal of the Governor Standard of the Governor Incumbent Andrew Cuomo since January 1, 2011 Style Governor (informal) The Honourable (formal) His Excellency (courtesy) Status Head of State Head of Government Residence New York State Executive Mansion Term length Four years, no term limit Constituting instrument New York Constitution of 1777 Inaugural holder George Clinton Formation July 30, 1777 (242 years ago) (1777-07-30) Deputy Lieutenant Governor of New York Salary $200,000 (2020) Website Official website New York This article is part of a series on the politics and government of New York Constitution and Law United States Constitution New York Constitution New York Law Executive Governor Andrew M. Cuomo (D) Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul (D) Secretary of State Rossana Rosado (D) State Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli (D) Attorney General Letitia James (D) Commissioner of Education MaryEllen Elia State Cabinet See also: State Treasurer: abolished in 1926 Legislature State Senate President Kathy Hochul (D) Majority leader Andrea Stewart-Cousins (D) Minority Leader John J. Flanagan (R) State Assembly Speaker Carl Heastie (D) Majority leader Crystal Peoples-Stokes (D) Minority leader Brian Kolb (R) Judiciary Court of Appeals Chief Judge Jonathan Lippman Read Pigott Rivera Abdus-Salaam Stein Supreme Court, Appellate Division New York Supreme Court Court of Claims Surrogate's Court Family Court County Court New York City courts Civil Court Criminal Court Elections Electoral fusion Electoral reform in New York Political parties Qualified New York Parties Democratic Party Republican Party Green Party Socialist Party Libertarian Party Independence Party Conservative Party Working Families Party National minor parties Political party strength Inferior Jurisdictions Counties (62) Cities (62) Towns (932) Villages (555) School districts Federal Representation United States Senators Charles Schumer (D) Kirsten Gillibrand (D) U.S. Representatives 1: Lee Zeldin (R) 2: Peter King (R) 3: Thomas Suozzi (D) 4: Kathleen Rice (D) 5: Gregory Meeks (D) 6: Grace Meng (D) 7: Nydia Velázquez (D) 8: Hakeem Jeffries (D) 9: Yvette Clarke (D) 10: Jerrold Nadler (D) 11: Dan Donovan (R) 12: Carolyn Maloney (D) 13: Charlie Rangel (D) 14: Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D) 15: José E. Serrano (D) 16: Eliot Engel (D) 17: Nita Lowey (D) 18: Sean Maloney (D) 19: Chris Gibson (R) 20: Paul Tonko (D) 21: Elise Stefanik (R) 22: Richard L. Hanna (R) 23: Tom Reed (R) 24: John Katko (R) 25: Louise Slaughter (D) 26: Brian Higgins (D) 27: Chris Collins (R) Politics of the United States Politics portal United States portal New York (state) portal v t e The Governor of New York is the head of government of the U.S. state of New York. The governor is the head of the executive branch of New York's state government and the commander-in-chief of the state's military and naval forces. The current governor is Andrew Cuomo, a Democrat, who took office on January 1, 2011. Contents 1 Powers and duties 2 Qualifications 3 History 4 Line of succession 5 See also 6 References 7 External links Powers and duties[edit] The original Certificate of Election of John Jay as Governor of New York (June 6, 1795) The governor has a duty to enforce state laws, and the power to either approve or veto bills passed by the New York State Legislature, to convene the legislature, and to grant pardons, except in cases of treason and impeachment.[1] Unlike the other government departments that compose the executive branch of government, the governor is the head of the state Executive Department. The officeholder is afforded the courtesy style of His/Her Excellency while in office.[2] The governor of New York is often considered a potential candidate for President of the United States. Ten governors have been major-party candidates for president, and 4, Martin Van Buren, Grover Cleveland, Theodore Roosevelt, and Franklin D. Roosevelt, have won. Six New York governors have gone on to serve as vice president.[3] Additionally 2 Governors of New York, John Jay and Charles Evans Hughes, have served as Chief Justice of the United States. Qualifications[edit] Under the New York State Constitution, a person must be at least 30 years of age, a United States citizen, and a resident of the state of New York for at least five years prior to being elected to serve as governor. History[edit] See also: List of governors of New York The office of Governor was established by the first New York State Constitution in 1777 to coincide with the calendar year. An 1874 amendment extended the term of office to three years, but the 1894 constitution reduced it to two years. The most recent constitution of 1938 extended the term to the current four years. Line of succession[edit] See also: Gubernatorial lines of succession in the United States § New York The Constitution of New York has provided since 1777 for the election of a Lieutenant Governor of New York, who also acts as President of the State Senate, to the same term (keeping the same term lengths as the governor throughout all the constitutional revisions). Originally, in the event of the death, resignation or impeachment of the governor, or absence from the state, the lieutenant governor would take on the governor's duties and powers. Since the 1938 constitution, the lieutenant governor explicitly becomes governor upon such vacancy in the office. Should the office of lieutenant governor become vacant, the president pro tempore of the state senate[4] performs the duties of a lieutenant governor until the governor can take back the duties of the office, or the next election; likewise, should both offices become vacant, the president pro tempore acts as governor, with the office of lieutenant governor remaining vacant. Although no provision exists in the constitution for it, precedent set in 2009 allows the governor to appoint a lieutenant governor should a vacancy occur.[5] Should the president pro tempore be unable to fulfill the duties, the speaker of the assembly is next in the line of succession. The lieutenant governor is elected on the same ticket as the governor, but nominated separately. Line of succession: Lieutenant Governor Temporary President of the Senate Speaker of the Assembly Attorney General Comptroller Commissioner of Transportation Commissioner of Health Commissioner of Commerce Industrial Commissioner Chairman of the Public Service Commission Secretary of State[6] See also[edit] Politics of New York (state) References[edit] ^ "The Constitution of the State of New York" (PDF). New York Department of State. New York Department of State — Division of Administrative Rules. January 1, 2015. p. 14. Retrieved March 3, 2019. ^ New York Chamber of Commerce (1899). Annual banquet of the Chamber of Commerce of the State of New York. Addresses made on the occasion. 131. p. 23. Retrieved May 18, 2015. ^ Edward V. Schneier, John Brian Murtaugh, and Antoinette Pole, New York Politics: A Tale of Two States (2nd edition) (2010) ^ The state constitutions refer to this position as the "temporary president of the senate" ^ Peters, Jeremy W.; Chan, Sewell (September 22, 2009). "In 4-3 Vote, Court Says Paterson Can Appoint Lt. Governor". The New York Times. Retrieved September 22, 2009. ^ http://law.justia.com/codes/new-york/2012/dea External links[edit] Official website Governor's Office in the New York Codes, Rules and Regulations v t e Officers in the State of New York Current offices Governor Lieutenant Governor Speaker of the Assembly Temporary President of the Senate Secretary of State Attorney General State Comptroller Chief Judge of the Court of Appeals Associate Judge of the Court of Appeals Clerk of the Court of Appeals Clerk of the State Assembly Defunct offices State Treasurer State Engineer Superintendent of Public Works Chancellor Canal Commissioner Inspector of State Prisons v t e Governors and lieutenant governors of New York Governors G. Clinton Jay G. Clinton Lewis Tompkins Tayler D. Clinton Yates D. Clinton Pitcher Van Buren Throop Marcy Seward Bouck Wright Young Fish Hunt Seymour Clark King Morgan Seymour Fenton Hoffman J. Adams Dix Tilden Robinson Cornell Cleveland Hill Flower Morton Black T. Roosevelt Odell Higgins Hughes White J. Alden Dix Sulzer Glynn Whitman Smith Miller Smith F. Roosevelt Lehman Poletti Dewey Harriman Rockefeller Wilson Carey M. Cuomo Pataki Spitzer Paterson A. Cuomo Lieutenant governors Van Cortlandt S. Van Rensselaer J. Van Rensselaer Broome Tayler Clinton Tayler Swift Tayler Root Tallmadge Pitcher P. Livingston Dayan Throop Stebbins Oliver E. Livingston Tracy Bradish Dickinson Gardiner Lester Fish Patterson Church Raymond Selden Campbell Floyd-Jones Alvord Woodford Beach Robinson Dorsheimer Hoskins Hill McCarthy Jones Sheehan Saxton Woodruff Higgins Bruce Raines Chanler White Cobb Conway Glynn Wagner Schoeneck Walker Wood Lusk Lunn Lowman Corning Lehman Bray Poletti Hanley Wallace Hanley Moore Wicks Mahoney DeLuca Wilson Anderson Krupsak M. Cuomo DelBello Anderson Lundine McCaughey Donohue Paterson Bruno Skelos Smith Espada Ravitch Duffy Hochul Italics indicate acting officeholders v t e New York state government departments Departments Agriculture and Markets Audit and Control Civil Service Corrections and Community Supervision Economic Development Education Environmental Conservation Executive Family Assistance Financial Services Health Labor Law Mental Hygiene Motor Vehicles Public Service State Taxation and Finance Transportation Defunct departments Banking Insurance Public Works Non-departmental Board on Electric Generation Siting and the Environment Commission on Judicial Conduct Joint Commission on Public Ethics Legislative Bill Drafting Commission New York State Financial Control Board New York State Law Revision Commission Public Authorities Control Board v t e New York state public-benefit corporations Oversight New York State Authorities Budget Office, New York State Comptroller, New York State Financial Control Board, New York State Public Authorities Control Board Class A Statewide Agriculture & New York State Horse Breeding Development Fund Dormitory Authority of the State of New York Empire State Development Corporation Homeless Housing & Assistance Corporation National Heritage Trust New York Job Development Authority New York Local Government Assistance Corporation New York State Affordable Housing Corporation New York State Archives Partnership Trust New York State Canal Corporation New York State Energy Research & Development Authority New York State Environmental Facilities Corporation New York State Foundation for Science, Technology and Innovation New York State Housing Finance Agency New York State Housing Trust Fund Corporation New York State Thoroughbred Breeding and Development Fund Corporation New York State Thruway Authority New York State Urban Development Corporation New York Wine/Grape Foundation Power Authority of the State of New York State of New York Mortgage Agency State of New York Municipal Bond Bank Agency State University Construction Fund Tobacco Settlement Financing Corporation Defunct New York State Theatre Institute Corporation Class A Regional Albany Convention Center Authority Albany Port District Commission Buffalo Fiscal Stability Authority Capital District Transportation Authority Central New York Regional Transportation Authority City University Construction Fund Development Authority of the North Country Erie County Fiscal Stability Authority Erie County Medical Center Corporation Hudson River Park Trust Hudson River-Black River Regulating District Hugh L. Carey Battery Park City Authority Long Island Power Authority Lower Manhattan Development Corporation Metropolitan Transportation Authority Municipal Assistance Corporation for the City of NY Municipal Assistance Corporation for the City of Troy Nassau County Interim Finance Authority Nassau Health Care Corporation Nelson A. Rockefeller Empire State Plaza Performing Arts Center Corporation New York Convention Center Operating Corporation New York State Bridge Authority Niagara Frontier Transportation Authority North Country Power Authority Olympic Regional Development Authority Overcoat Development Corporation Port of Oswego Authority Rochester-Genesee Regional Transportation Authority Roosevelt Island Operating Corporation Roswell Park Cancer Institute Corporation United Nations Development Corporation Utility Debt Securitization Authority Westchester County Health Care Corporation Defunct Industrial Exhibit Authority Class B Adirondack Park Agency New York Racing Association Class C (local jurisdiction: towns, villages, and small cities) Green Island Power Authority New York City School Construction Authority Class D (interstate and international) Buffalo and Fort Erie Public Bridge Authority Niagara Falls Bridge Commission Ogdensburg Bridge and Port Authority Port Authority of New York and New Jersey v t e Chief executives of the United States Federal President of the United States State governors (current list) Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California list Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii list Idaho Illinois list Indiana list Iowa Kansas Kentucky list Louisiana Maine list Maryland list Massachusetts Michigan list Minnesota list Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire list New Jersey list New Mexico list New York list North Carolina list North Dakota list Ohio Oklahoma list Oregon list Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina list South Dakota list Tennessee list Texas list Utah Vermont list Virginia list Washington West Virginia Wisconsin list Wyoming Territorial (current list) American Samoa District of Columbia Guam Northern Mariana Islands Puerto Rico list United States Virgin Islands Defunct Cuba Dakota Territory Panama Canal Zone Philippine Islands (until 1935) Philippine Commonwealth (until 1946) Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands Santo Domingo v t e Governors and executives of U.S. states and territories President of the United States: Donald Trump (R) AL Ivey (R) AK Dunleavy (R) AZ Ducey (R) AR Hutchinson (R) CA Newsom (D) CO Polis (D) CT Lamont (D) DE Carney (D) FL DeSantis (R) GA Kemp (R) HI Ige (D) ID Little (R) IL Pritzker (D) IN Holcomb (R) IA Reynolds (R) KS Kelly (D) KY Beshear (D) LA Edwards (D) ME Mills (D) MD Hogan (R) MA Baker (R) MI Whitmer (D) MN Walz (D) MS Reeves (R) MO Parson (R) MT Bullock (D) NE Ricketts (R) NV Sisolak (D) NH Sununu (R) NJ Murphy (D) NM Lujan Grisham (D) NY Cuomo (D) NC Cooper (D) ND Burgum (R) OH DeWine (R) OK Stitt (R) OR Brown (D) PA Wolf (D) RI Raimondo (D) SC McMaster (R) SD Noem (R) TN Lee (R) TX Abbott (R) UT Herbert (R) VT Scott (R) VA Northam (D) WA Inslee (D) WV Justice (R) WI Evers (D) WY Gordon (R) DC Bowser (D), Mayor Territories: AS Moliga (D) GU Guerrero (D) MP Torres (R) PR Vázquez Garced (R) VI Bryan (D) Political party affiliations: Republican: 28 (26 states, 2 territories) Democratic: 28 (24 states, 3 territories, 1 district) v t e State of New York Albany (capital) Topics Airports Bibliography Demographics Economy Education Geography History Healthcare Museums Music Nickname Parks People Politics Sports Symbols Transportation Tourist attractions Politics Administrative divisions Congressional districts Constitution Delegations Senators Representatives Elections Government Law Regions Adirondack Mountains Allegheny Plateau Capital District Catskill Mountains Central Region Central New York Champlain Valley New York City Finger Lakes Holland Purchase Hudson Highlands Hudson Valley Long Island Mohawk Valley Niagara Frontier North Country Ridge and Valley Saint Lawrence Seaway Shawangunks Ski country Southern Tier Southtowns Tech Valley Thousand Islands Tug Hill Upstate Western Metro areas Albany / Schenectady / Troy Binghamton Buffalo / Niagara Falls Elmira / Corning Glens Falls Ithaca Kingston New York City Rochester Syracuse Utica / Rome Watertown Counties Albany Allegany Bronx Broome Cattaraugus Cayuga Chautauqua Chemung Chenango Clinton Columbia Cortland Delaware Dutchess Erie Essex Franklin Fulton Genesee Greene Hamilton Herkimer Jefferson Kings Lewis Livingston Madison Monroe Montgomery Tryon Nassau New York Niagara Oneida Onondaga Ontario Orange Orleans Oswego Otsego Putnam Queens Rensselaer Richmond Rockland Saint Lawrence Saratoga Schenectady Schoharie Schuyler Seneca Steuben Suffolk Sullivan Tioga Tompkins Ulster Warren Washington Charlotte Wayne Westchester Wyoming Yates Places Cities Towns Indian reservations Villages Census-designated places New York (state) portal Politics portal Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Governor_of_New_York&oldid=953592814" Categories: Governors of New York (state) State constitutional officers of New York (state) Hidden categories: Articles with short description Use mdy dates from July 2018 Use American English from July 2018 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Dansk Deutsch Ελληνικά فارسی Français 한국어 Italiano עברית Polski Русский Scots Simple English Suomi Українська Tiếng Việt 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 28 April 2020, at 01:17 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view