https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Governor_of_South_Carolina
Governor of South Carolina - Wikipedia
Governor of South Carolina From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Head of state and of government of the U.S. state of South Carolina For a list, see List of governors of South Carolina. Governor of South Carolina Seal of the Governor Incumbent Henry McMaster since January 24, 2017 Style His Excellency Residence Governor's Mansion Term length Four years, renewable once consecutively Inaugural holder William Sayle Formation Constitution of South Carolina Salary $106,078 (2013)[1] Website Official website Outer part of the governor's office in the South Carolina State House in Columbia The governor of the State of South Carolina is the chief executive of South Carolina serving as its head of state and head of the executive of the government of South Carolina. The governor is the ex officio commander-in-chief of the National Guard when not called into federal use. The governor's responsibilities include making yearly "State of the State" addresses to the South Carolina General Assembly, submitting an executive budget and ensuring that state laws are enforced. The 117th and current governor of South Carolina is Henry McMaster, who is serving his first elected term. He assumed the office on January 24, 2017, after Nikki Haley resigned to become the United States ambassador to the United Nations.[2] He won the 2018 gubernatorial election. Contents 1 Requirements to hold office 2 Term(s) of office 2.1 Powers, duties, and responsibilities 3 Succession 4 Oath of office 5 Official residence 6 History 7 Notes 8 See also 9 References 10 External links Requirements to hold office[edit] There are three legal requirements set forth in Section 2 of Article IV of the South Carolina Constitution. (1) Be at least 30 years of age. (2) Citizen of the United States and a resident of South Carolina for 5 years preceding the day of election.[3][4] The final requirement, (3) "No person shall be eligible to the office of governor who denies the existence of the Supreme Being", is of extremely doubtful validity in light of the 1961 Supreme Court decision Torcaso v. Watkins, which reaffirmed that religious tests for public offices violated the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution. This requirement, however, has still not been removed from the Constitution of South Carolina. [5]In any case, under the state's present political climate it is considered highly unlikely the voters would elect a person who openly denied the existence of God.[6] Term(s) of office[edit] Under Section 4 in Article IV of the South Carolina Constitution, the governor serves a four-year term in office beginning at noon on the first Wednesday following the second Tuesday in January following his election and ending at noon on the first Wednesday following the second Tuesday in January four years later. Section 3 of Article IV states that no person shall be elected governor for more than two successive terms. For clarification, a person can hold an unlimited amount of terms as governor as long as such person does not serve more than two consecutive terms.[7] Since Henry McMaster assumed the office of governor after Nikki Haley resigned, he is eligible to serve the remainder of Haley's term and two consecutive four-year terms of his own. Powers, duties, and responsibilities[edit] According to the South Carolina Constitution, the governor: Exercises "supreme executive authority."[8] Appoints directors to 14 cabinet agencies, but most appointments are shared with the General Assembly. Serves as the commander-in-chief of the South Carolina National Guard. Serves as the commander-in-chief of the South Carolina State Guard, which is an auxiliary of the National Guard organized for in-state homeland defense. Commutes death sentences to life imprisonment.[9] [note 1] Calls the General Assembly to an extra session in "extraordinary circumstances." Adjourns the General Assembly as he shall think proper. Exercises veto and a Line-item veto power on bills. Declares a state of emergency and oversees relief in the event of a disaster. Declares public schools and government offices closed during civil or weather emergencies. Oversees all state departments. Serves as the ex officio chair of the board of trustees of all state universities. [10] Submits a budget proposal to the General Assembly every January. [8] Delivers a state of the state address, "from time to time," to the General Assembly; this is usually done in January. [8] Appoints United States senators in cases of vacancy to serve until the next election. Appoints (or suspends) county sheriffs in cases of vacancy to serve until the next election. [11] Succession[edit] If the incumbent governor is no longer able or permitted to fulfill the duties of the office of governor, the following line of succession will be followed: # Position Office Holder Party 1 Lieutenant governor Pamela Evette Republican 2 Speaker of the State House of Representatives Jay Lucas Republican 3 President of the South Carolina Senate Harvey S. Peeler Jr. Republican 4 Secretary of State Mark Hammond Republican 5 State Treasurer Curtis Loftis Republican 6 Attorney General Alan Wilson Republican If the governor is impeached and removed from office or if the governor is temporarily disabled or absent from office, the lieutenant governor will have the powers of the governor. If the governor-elect is unable to fulfill the duties of the office of the governor, the lieutenant governor will become governor when the incumbent governor's term expires. If there is an incumbent governor beginning a new term, but a lieutenant governor-elect, and if the incumbent governor is unable to fulfill the duties of the office of the governor, the incumbent lieutenant governor shall become governor until the inauguration date, and the lieutenant governor-elect shall become governor on that date.[7] The governor may temporarily transmit his powers and duties down the line of succession in cases of temporary disability. The most recent case of such transmission of power was in 2014 when Lieutenant Governor Yancey McGill, a Democrat, acted as governor while Republican Nikki Haley had surgery.[12] Oath of office[edit] "I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I am duly qualified, according to the Constitution of this State, to exercise the duties of the office to which I have been elected, (or appointed), and that I will, to the best of my ability, discharge the duties thereof, and preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of this State and of the United States. So help me God." Official residence[edit] Main article: South Carolina Governor's Mansion South Carolina Governor's Mansion, 800 Richland St., Columbia (Richland County, South Carolina) The Governor's Mansion, located at 800 Richland Street in Columbia, on Arsenal Hill, is the official residence of the Governor of South Carolina. It was built in 1855 and originally served as faculty quarters for The Arsenal Academy which together with the Citadel Academy in Charleston formed The South Carolina Military Academy (now The Citadel); The Arsenal was burned by Sherman's forces in February 1865 and never reopened; the faculty quarters building was the only structure to survive and became the official residence of the governor in 1868.[13] The South Carolina Constitution in Section 20 of Article IV requires that the governor is to reside where the General Assembly convenes. History[edit] The South Carolina Constitution of 1776 specified for the governor (known as the president) to be chosen by the General Assembly. In 1778, the constitution was amended to change the title for the chief of the executive branch from president to governor. A new constitution was promulgated in 1865 following the capture of the state by the Union Army in the Civil War. It called for the direct election of the governor, but continued to limit the vote to white males. On October 18, 1865, James Lawrence Orr was the first governor of South Carolina to be elected by popular vote. Following the state's failure to adopt the 14th Amendment to the United States Constitution, the US Congress eliminated all offices of state government. A temporary military government headed by Edward Canby was set up until new elections were held after the writing of the Constitution of 1868. All male citizens above the age of 21, regardless of race, were given the right to vote and the governor was allowed to be elected to two consecutive terms. The election of Ben Tillman in 1890 to governor by the support of agrarian reformers forced a new constitutional convention to be held. The constitution of 1895 instituted a poll tax and also required voters to pass a literacy test. These provisions were used to effectively deny the vote to blacks. The convention also increased the governor's powers by granting a line-item veto on the budget. Initially, the United States Supreme Court upheld the validity of legislation requiring voters to pay a poll tax,[14], and ruled that literacy tests were not necessarily unconstitutional.[15] In 1964, the Twenty-Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution made it unlawful for a state to require payment of a poll tax in order to vote in a federal election, and the Supreme Court, reversing the Breedlove decision, then held that requiring the payment of a poll tax in any election was a violation of the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution.[16] Elimination of the literacy test required federal legislation, the validity of which was upheld by the Supreme Court.[17] Originally, governors served two-year terms, with no restrictions on reelection. In 1926, the constitution was amended to lengthen the governor's term to four years, but prevented consecutive terms. Governor Richard Riley pushed for an amendment to allow for two consecutive terms and it was passed by the voters in 1980. Notes[edit] ^ Unlike most states, the power to grant reprieves and pardons resides in a seven-member board, not the Governor. See also[edit] List of governors of South Carolina South Carolina gubernatorial elections References[edit] ^ "CSG Releases 2013 Governor Salaries". The Council of State Governments. June 25, 2013. Retrieved November 23, 2014. ^ "Gov. Nikki Haley Resigns, McMaster Takes Over". Retrieved June 15, 2018. ^ "The South Carolina Governor". www.ipspr.sc.edu. Archived from the original on February 4, 2012. Retrieved June 15, 2018. ^ South Carolina Constitution Article IV ^ Torcaso v. Watkins ^ https://www.huffpost.com/entry/no-atheists-in-congress_n_586c074ae4b0de3a08f9d487 ^ a b "Archived copy". Archived from the original on April 27, 2012. Retrieved April 2, 2012.CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link) ^ a b c "Article IV, South Carolina Constitution - Ballotpedia". Retrieved June 15, 2018. ^ "South Carolina Pardon Information - Pardon411". www.pardon411.com. Retrieved June 15, 2018. ^ "Members - Board of Trustees - University of South Carolina". sc.edu. Retrieved June 15, 2018. ^ "Code of Laws - Title 23 - Chapter 11 - Sheriffs-election, Qualifications And Vacancies In Office". www.scstatehouse.gov. Retrieved June 15, 2018. ^ "Lt. Gov. Yancey McGill to Serve Temporarily as Governor". wltx.com. ^ "History of the South Carolina Military Academy", Col. J.P. Thomas ^ Breedlove v. Suttles, 302 U.S. 277 (1937) ^ Lassiter v. Northampton County Board of Elections, 360 U.S. 45 (1959). ^ Harper v. Virginia Board of Elections, 383 U.S. 663 (1966) ^ Katzenbach v. Morgan, 384 U.S. 641 (1966). External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Governors of South Carolina. Official website South Carolina Constitution Article IV List of South Carolina Governors in Chronological Order The Governor: Powers, Practices, Roles and the South Carolina Experience v t e Governors of South Carolina J. Rutledge Lowndes J. Rutledge Mathews Guerard Moultrie T. Pinckney C. Pinckney Moultrie Vanderhorst C. Pinckney E. Rutledge Drayton J. Richardson P. Hamilton C. Pinckney Drayton Middleton Alston D. Williams A. Pickens Geddes Bennett Wilson Manning I Taylor Miller J. Hamilton Hayne McDuffie Butler Noble Henagan Richardson II Hammond Aiken Johnson Seabrook Means J. Manning Adams Allston Gist F. Pickens Bonham Magrath Perry Orr Scott Moses Chamberlain Hampton Simpson Jeter Hagood Thompson Sheppard Richardson III Tillman Evans Ellerbe McSweeney Heyward Ansel Blease Smith Manning III Cooper Harvey McLeod Richards Blackwood Johnston Maybank Harley Jefferies Johnston R. Williams Thurmond Byrnes Timmerman Hollings Russell McNair West Edwards Riley Campbell Beasley Hodges Sanford Haley McMaster v t e South Carolina statewide elected officials Governor Lieutenant Governor Secretary of State Attorney General Treasurer Comptroller Agriculture Commissioner Superintendent of Education Adjutant General v t e Governors and executives of U.S. states and territories President of the United States: Donald Trump (R) AL Ivey (R) AK Dunleavy (R) AZ Ducey (R) AR Hutchinson (R) CA Newsom (D) CO Polis (D) CT Lamont (D) DE Carney (D) FL DeSantis (R) GA Kemp (R) HI Ige (D) ID Little (R) IL Pritzker (D) IN Holcomb (R) IA Reynolds (R) KS Kelly (D) KY Beshear (D) LA Edwards (D) ME Mills (D) MD Hogan (R) MA Baker (R) MI Whitmer (D) MN Walz (D) MS Reeves (R) MO Parson (R) MT Bullock (D) NE Ricketts (R) NV Sisolak (D) NH Sununu (R) NJ Murphy (D) NM Lujan Grisham (D) NY Cuomo (D) NC Cooper (D) ND Burgum (R) OH DeWine (R) OK Stitt (R) OR Brown (D) PA Wolf (D) RI Raimondo (D) SC McMaster (R) SD Noem (R) TN Lee (R) TX Abbott (R) UT Herbert (R) VT Scott (R) VA Northam (D) WA Inslee (D) WV Justice (R) WI Evers (D) WY Gordon (R) DC Bowser (D), Mayor Territories: AS Moliga (D) GU Guerrero (D) MP Torres (R) PR Vázquez Garced (R) VI Bryan (D) Political party affiliations: Republican: 28 (26 states, 2 territories) Democratic: 28 (24 states, 3 territories, 1 district) v t e Chief executives of the United States Federal President of the United States State governors (current list) Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California list Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii list Idaho Illinois list Indiana list Iowa Kansas Kentucky list Louisiana Maine list Maryland list Massachusetts Michigan list Minnesota list Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire list New Jersey list New Mexico list New York list North Carolina list North Dakota list Ohio Oklahoma list Oregon list Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina list South Dakota list Tennessee list Texas list Utah Vermont list Virginia list Washington West Virginia Wisconsin list Wyoming Territorial (current list) American Samoa District of Columbia Guam Northern Mariana Islands Puerto Rico list United States Virgin Islands Defunct Cuba Dakota Territory Panama Canal Zone Philippine Islands (until 1935) Philippine Commonwealth (until 1946) Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands Santo Domingo Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Governor_of_South_Carolina&oldid=952973221" Categories: Governors of South Carolina State constitutional officers of South Carolina 1778 establishments in South Carolina Hidden categories: CS1 maint: archived copy as title Articles with short description Use mdy dates from June 2018 Commons category link is on Wikidata Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Italiano עברית Polski Slovenčina Edit links This page was last edited on 25 April 2020, at 01:30 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view