https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Governor_of_Wisconsin
Governor of Wisconsin - Wikipedia
Governor of Wisconsin From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search For a list, see List of governors of Wisconsin. Governor of Wisconsin Seal of the Governor Incumbent Tony Evers since January 7, 2019 Residence Wisconsin Governor's Mansion Term length Four years, no term limits Inaugural holder Nelson Dewey Formation June 7, 1848 (1848-06-07) Deputy Lieutenant Governor of Wisconsin Salary $146,597.88[1] Website Official website The Governor of Wisconsin is the highest executive authority in the government of the U.S. state of Wisconsin. The position was first filled by Nelson Dewey on June 7, 1848, the year Wisconsin became a state. Prior to statehood, there were four governors of Wisconsin Territory. The current governor is Tony Evers, a Democrat who took office on January 7, 2019. Contents 1 Powers 1.1 Constitutional Powers 1.1.1 Veto power 1.1.2 Other constitutional powers 1.2 Administrative and Budgetary Powers 2 Elections and term of office 2.1 Removal 2.2 Election history 3 Relationship with the lieutenant governor of Wisconsin 4 Succession 5 References 6 External links Powers[edit] The governor of Wisconsin has both inherent powers granted by the U.S. Constitution and administrative powers granted by laws passed by the Wisconsin State Legislature. Constitutional Powers[edit] The constitutional powers of the governor of Wisconsin are outlined in the Wisconsin Constitution at Article V, Section 4. In general, the governor ensures that the laws of Wisconsin are carried out. Veto power[edit] The governor of Wisconsin has the strongest veto power of nearly any American governor.[2] Any bill passed by the Wisconsin State Legislature must be presented to the governor, who either signs it into law, or vetoes it. In the event of a veto, the bill is returned the legislature, who may then vote to override the veto. In 1930, the Wisconsin Constitution was amended to give the governor line-item veto power, which allows portions of appropriations bills to be struck out without rejecting the entire bill. The partial veto may still be overridden by the legislature. In 1990 a further amendment specified that the line-item veto does not give the governor power to veto individual letters of appropriations bills, thereby forming new words.[3] Despite this 1990 law, the strength of the governor's veto power gave rise to the term "Frankenstein veto" to describe the governor's ability to form a new bill that subverts the intent of the legislature. The Wisconsin Supreme Court will determine if the veto power should be further limited in 2019.[4] Other constitutional powers[edit] The governor is the commander-in-chief of the state's militia. If it is deemed necessary, the governor may also convene extraordinary sessions of the state legislature; and may convene them anywhere in the state, if Madison, the state capital, is deemed unfit for the purpose due to invasion or contagious disease.[5] The governor may pardon, commute, or grant reprieve of sentences, except in cases of treason or impeachment. The governor must notify the Wisconsin State Legislature of these each year, along with the reasons for them. In cases of treason, the governor may suspend the carrying out of the sentence until the next session of the legislature, who then vote to grant a pardon, commutation or reprieve, or to carry out the sentence.[5] The governor must also "communicate to the legislature, at every session, the condition of the state, and recommend such matters to them for their consideration as he may deem expedient"[5] (these annual communications are referred to as the "state of the state").[6] Administrative and Budgetary Powers[edit] The governor of Wisconsin, as head of the executive branch, also has administrative powers (the power to administer agencies created by the Wisconsin legislature). Since 1965, there has been an increase in executive orders to "establish standards and provide uniformity to executive agency operations and programs."[7] However, since 2011, the Wisconsin Legislature has attempted to limit the authority of administrative agencies.[8] The governor also appoints heads of agencies created by the legislature. This appointment power is not explicitly granted by the Wisconsin Constitution, as it is in the appointments clause of the federal constitution, with the exception of appointing judicial vacancies.[9] Instead, the governor appoints heads of agencies by statute. The governor of Wisconsin had 307 executive appointments between 2017-2018.[10] State law requires the governor to prepare an executive budget bill.[11] This helps the governor "to pursue a legislative agenda".[7] Elections and term of office[edit] The governor of Wisconsin is directly elected—the candidate with the most votes becomes governor. If two candidates receive an equal number of votes, which is higher than that received by any other candidate, the members of the state legislature vote between the two at their next session.[12] Under the original Wisconsin Constitution, governors were elected for a term of two years; in 1967, the constitution was amended to increase the term of office to four years, beginning with the governor elected in the 1970 election.[13] There is no limit to the number of terms a governor may hold. The longest-serving governor was Tommy Thompson, from January 5, 1987 until February 1, 2001, a total of 14 years and 28 days; the shortest-serving was Arthur MacArthur, Sr., from March 21, 1856 until March 25 of the same year; a total of 5 days.[14] Candidates for the office must be citizens of the United States and qualified voters in the state of Wisconsin.[15] Removal[edit] The governor usually leaves office because their term ends and they have not been re-elected. But the governor may also leave office through other means. For example, the governor may resign from office. Four governors have resigned: William Barstow due to fraud allegations, Robert La Follette, Sr. to take his seat in the United States Senate, Patrick Joseph Lucey to become Ambassador to Mexico, and Tommy Thompson to become United States Secretary of Health and Human Services. Additionally two governors—Louis Harvey and Walter Samuel Goodland—died while in office, and Orland Loomis, who was elected governor, died before taking office.[14] The governor can also be removed through an impeachment trial[16] or through a recall election.[17] An impeachment trial is carried out by the Wisconsin State Assembly, if a majority of its members agree to the impeachment. No governors have been removed from office through impeachment in the history of Wisconsin. However, Arthur MacArthur, Sr., who, as lieutenant governor, became acting governor upon the resignation of William Barstow in 1856, was removed after the Wisconsin Supreme Court ruled that Barstow's opponent in the previous election, Coles Bashford, was the election's legitimate winner.[14] In 2012, Scott Walker became the only governor in Wisconsin history to face a recall election. He retained his seat, defeating Milwaukee mayor Tom Barrett by seven percentage points, a margin one point greater than that of the 2010 election,[18] becoming the first governor in American history to survive a recall attempt.[19] Election history[edit] Main articles: Wisconsin gubernatorial elections and List of governors of Wisconsin In the most recent gubernatorial election in Wisconsin, over 1.3 million voters cast ballots for governor. This was the highest turnout in Wisconsin voting history, with the exception of the 2012 recall election. There have been 44 Governors of Wisconsin and 45 individual governorships. 1 governor, Philip La Follette, served non-consecutive terms. Four parties have had their candidates elected governor: the Democratic, the Whig, the Republican and the Progressive.[14] Relationship with the lieutenant governor of Wisconsin[edit] Originally, the state constitution specified that the governor and lieutenant governor of Wisconsin were voted upon separately, but in 1967, the constitution was amended to state that they were elected together.[12] Prior to this amendment, there were nine incidents in which the elected governor and lieutenant governor were not of the same political party.[14] Originally, the state constitution only said that in the event of the impeachment, removal from office, death, resignation or absence of the governor, or in the event of the governor being unfit to serve due to illness, "the powers and duties of the office shall devolve upon the lieutenant governor" for the remainder of the term or until the governor is able to return to office.[20] In 1979, the constitution was amended to specify that in the event of the governor's death, resignation or removal from office, the lieutenant governor becomes governor for the remainder of the term, but in the event of impeachment, incapacitation or absence, the lieutenant governor merely becomes "acting governor" until the governor can return to his duties.[20] The original constitution also specified that in any of the aforementioned events the secretary of state would become governor if the lieutenant governorship was vacant, but after 1979 this provision, too, was amended to distinguish between "governor" and "acting governor."[21] Succession[edit] Main article: Gubernatorial lines of succession in the United States § Wisconsin References[edit] General ^ "Wisconsin Constitution, As amended through June 30, 2005" (PDF). State of Wisconsin Blue Book 2005–2006. Wisconsin Legislative Reference Bureau. July 2005. Archived from the original (PDF) on October 25, 2007. Retrieved October 18, 2007. Specific ^ "Database: Wisconsin state employee salaries | Politics and Elections". Wisconsin State Journal. May 13, 2016. Retrieved December 19, 2016. ^ "AP FACT CHECK: Wisconsin governor's veto pen is powerful". Associated Press. December 11, 2018. Retrieved September 18, 2019. ^ Wisconsin Constitution, Article V, Section 10 ^ "Wisconsin Supreme Court Takes Case Challenging Gov. Tony Evers' Veto Powers". Wisconsin Public Radio. November 17, 2019. Retrieved October 17, 2019. ^ a b c Wisconsin Constitution, Article V, Section 4 ^ "Gov. Tony Evers says he's seeking to get Wisconsin out of Obamacare lawsuit in first State of the State speech". jsonline.com. Milwaukee Journal-Sentinel. January 22, 2019. Retrieved September 11, 2019. ^ a b "The Use of Executive Orders in Wisconsin" (PDF). Legislative Reference Bureau. March 2018. Retrieved September 18, 2019. ^ "How Wisconsin Republicans Tamed the Administrative State". National Review. December 10, 2018. Retrieved September 18, 2019. ^ Wisconsin Constitution, Article VII, Section 9 ^ "Executive Appointments". Wisconsin State Legislature. Retrieved September 18, 2019. ^ "Statutes: Department of Administration". Wisconsin State Legislature. Retrieved September 18, 2019. ^ a b Wisconsin Constitution, Article V, Section 3 ^ Wisconsin Constitution, Article V, Section 1 ^ a b c d e "Wisconsin Governors since 1848; Wisconsin Constitutional Officers: Lieutenant Governors" (PDF). State of Wisconsin Blue Book 2005–2006. Wisconsin Legislative Reference Bureau. July 2005. pp. 30–31. Archived from the original (PDF) on October 25, 2007. Retrieved October 18, 2007. ^ Wisconsin Constitution, Article V, Section 2 ^ Wisconsin Constitution, Article VII, Section 1 ^ Wisconsin Constitution, Article XIII, Section 12 ^ https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2015/07/13/dear-democrats-you-only-have-yourself-to-blame-for-scott-walker/ ^ "Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker Survives Recall". NPR. June 5, 2012. Retrieved September 11, 2019. ^ a b Wisconsin Constitution, Article V, Section 7 ^ Wisconsin Constitution, Article V, Section 8 External links[edit] Office of the Governor v t e Chief executives of the United States Federal President of the United States State governors (current list) Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California list Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii list Idaho Illinois list Indiana list Iowa Kansas Kentucky list Louisiana Maine list Maryland list Massachusetts Michigan list Minnesota list Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire list New Jersey list New Mexico list New York list North Carolina list North Dakota list Ohio Oklahoma list Oregon list Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina list South Dakota list Tennessee list Texas list Utah Vermont list Virginia list Washington West Virginia Wisconsin list Wyoming Territorial (current list) American Samoa District of Columbia Guam Northern Mariana Islands Puerto Rico list United States Virgin Islands Defunct Cuba Dakota Territory Panama Canal Zone Philippine Islands (until 1935) Philippine Commonwealth (until 1946) Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands Santo Domingo v t e Governors of Wisconsin Territory (1836–48) Dodge Doty Tallmadge Dodge Catlin (acting) State (since 1848) Dewey Farwell Barstow MacArthur Bashford Randall Harvey Salomon Lewis Fairchild Washburn Taylor Ludington Smith Rusk Hoard Peck Upham Scofield R. La Follette Sr. Davidson McGovern Philipp Blaine Zimmerman Kohler Sr. P. La Follette Schmedeman P. La Follette Heil (Loomis) * Goodland Rennebohm Kohler Jr. Thomson Nelson Reynolds Knowles Lucey Schreiber Dreyfus Earl Thompson McCallum Doyle Walker Evers (*) elected but died before taking office v t e Constitutional officers of Wisconsin Governor (list) Lieutenant Governor (list) Secretary of State (list) State Treasurer (list) Attorney General (list) Superintendent of Public Instruction (list) Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Governor_of_Wisconsin&oldid=952252315" Categories: Governors of Wisconsin State constitutional officers of Wisconsin Hidden categories: Use mdy dates from June 2018 Use American English from June 2018 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Français Italiano Simple English Edit links This page was last edited on 21 April 2020, at 08:57 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view