https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/2020-election#after-mid2
Election 2020 - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper U.S. Election 2020 Read the latest on the 2020 election, including coverage of Donald Trump, Joe Biden, Elizabeth Warren, Bernie Sanders, Pete Buttigieg and more. Read the latest on the 2020 election, including coverage of Donald Trump, Joe Biden, Elizabeth Warren, Bernie Sanders, Pete Buttigieg and more. AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Latest Results National Map Delegate Count Election Calendar Who’s Running Our Guide to the 2020 Election The Latest Hillary Clinton, during a virtual town hall-style event about the impact of the coronavirus on women, announced her support for Joseph R. Biden Jr. Coronavirus Election Calendar As the coronavirus outbreak upends the 2020 campaign, several states have postponed or canceled their primary elections. We’re keeping track here. Last updated April 28, 2020 Meet the Candidates » Learn more about the Democratic presidential contenders. Joe Biden Democratic Primary Polls » CANDIDATEPOLLING AVG. Highlights Photo CreditT.J. Kirkpatrick for The New York Times How a Digital Ad Strategy That Helped Trump Is Being Used Against Him A former Facebook employee is using a tool he employed to help President Trump win to conduct tests for a progressive group, Acronym, dedicated to ousting Mr. Trump from office. By Nick Corasaniti Photo Credit Hillary Clinton Endorses Joe Biden: ‘I Wish He Were President Right Now’ The announcement by the 2016 Democratic presidential nominee follows ones from Barack Obama, Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren as the party tries to show its unity. By Lisa Lerer, Maggie Astor and Sydney Ember Photo CreditDoral Chenoweth/The Columbus Dispatch, via Associated Press Ohio’s G.O.P. Governor Splits From Trump, and Rises in Popularity Mike DeWine, a low-key career politician, has followed health experts’ guidance as Ohio confronts the coronavirus. His constituents are overwhelmingly appreciative. By Trip Gabriel Photo CreditBrittany Greeson for The New York Times Justin Amash Moves Toward a Third-Party Bid for President Mr. Amash, an independent congressman from Michigan who left the Republican Party last year, said he was exploring running as a Libertarian, adding new volatility to the race. By Jonathan Martin and Alexander Burns AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Latest Search Search Clear this text input On Politics: Another Split-Screen Endorsement An ex-nominee backs a presumptive one, and a third-party bid looms: This is your morning tip sheet. By Giovanni Russonello Does Andrew Yang Want to Be New York’s Post-Coronavirus Mayor? The ex-presidential candidate has boosted his profile, giving money to Bronx residents and starting a podcast and an antidiscrimination campaign. By Matt Stevens On Politics Media Watch Digital Ad Strategy Shows Impact on Voters’ Views of Trump Here’s a deeper look at how the Barometer team at Acronym is testing the impact of its Facebook ads. By Nick Corasaniti Live: Ohio State Primary Election Results 2020 Detailed results and maps from the Ohio primary election. Ohio Primary Election Results: 15th Congressional District Live Results: Ohio Presidential Primary 2020 Detailed results and maps from the Ohio presidential primary election. Ohio Primary Election Results: Eighth Congressional District Ohio Primary Election Results: Fourth Congressional District Maryland Special Election Results: Seventh Congressional District Ohio Primary Election Results: 16th Congressional District Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story The On Politics Newsletter A daily newsletter exploring the people, issues and ideas reshaping our political world.SIGN UP AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Follow Us nytpoliticstwitter page for nytpolitics nytpoliticsfacebook page for nytpolitics Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions