https://www.whitehouse.gov/issues/economy-jobs/
Economy & Jobs | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Economy & Jobs The economy has come roaring back to life under President Trump. The stock market has hit record high after record high, helping more Americans build wealth and secure their futures. Through needed tax cuts and reform, the Administration will bring jobs back to our country. The President is helping U.S. workers by expanding apprenticeship programs, reforming job training programs, and bringing businesses and educators together to ensure high-quality classroom instruction and on-the-job training. Economy & Jobs Deregulation Sparks Dramatic Telehealth Increase During the COVID-19 Response Apr 28, 2020 Proclamations Proclamation on World Intellectual Property Day, 2020 Economy & Jobs Apr 24, 2020 Statements & Releases Bill Announcement Economy & Jobs Apr 24, 2020 Fact Sheets President Donald J. Trump Remains Committed to Providing Critical Relief for American Small Businesses, Workers, and Healthcare Providers Economy & Jobs Apr 24, 2020 Economy & Jobs With Excess National Supply, Exchanges Will Allow U.S. Hospitals to Continue Meeting Ventilator Demand Apr 21, 2020 Statements & Releases President Donald J. Trump Convenes Members of Congress to Serve on the Opening Up America Again Congressional Group Economy & Jobs Apr 16, 2020 Statements & Releases President Donald J. Trump Announces Great American Economic Revival Industry Groups Economy & Jobs Apr 14, 2020 Remarks Remarks by President Trump at America CARES: Small Business Relief Update Meeting Economy & Jobs Apr 7, 2020 Statements & Releases Presidential Message on National Financial Capability Month, 2020 Economy & Jobs Apr 1, 2020 Statements & Releases Text of a Letter from the President to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President of the Senate Economy & Jobs Mar 28, 2020 Previous 1 2 3 … 70 Next The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search