https://www.jstor.org/stable/443484
Electoral College Procedure on JSTOR
Skip to Main Content Have library access? Log in through your library Search JSTOR Filter search by All Content In This Issue In This Journal Log in Register Advanced Search Browse by Subject by Title by Publisher Tools Workspace Text Analyzer The JSTOR Understanding Series Data for Research About Support Log inRegister If You Use a Screen Reader This content is available through Read Online (Free) program, which relies on page scans. Since scans are not currently available to screen readers, please contact JSTOR User Support for access. We'll provide a PDF copy for your screen reader. The Western Pol... Vol. 3, No. 2, ... Electoral Colle... Journal Article Electoral College Procedure Robert G. Dixon, Jr. The Western Political Quarterly Vol. 3, No. 2 (Jun., 1950), pp. 214-224 Published by: University of Utah on behalf of the Western Political Science Association DOI: 10.2307/443484 https://www.jstor.org/stable/443484 Page Count: 11 You can always find the topics here! Topics: Voting, Ballots, Presidential elections, Electoral college, Political parties, Election laws, Political candidates, State elections, United States Senate, State law Give feedback Were these topics helpful? Select the topics that are inaccurate. Voting Ballots Presidential elections Electoral college Political parties Election laws Political candidates State elections United States Senate State law Cancel Read Online (Free) Subscribe ($19.50) Save Cite this Item Cite This Item Copy Citation Export Citation Export to NoodleTools Export to RefWorks Export to EasyBib Export a RIS file (For EndNote, ProCite, Reference Manager, Zotero, Mendeley…) Export a Text file (For BibTex) Note: Always review your references and make any necessary corrections before using. Pay attention to names, capitalization, and dates. × Close Overlay Journal Info The Western Political Quarterly Coverage: 1948-1992 (Vol. 1, No. 1 - Vol. 45, No. 4) Moving Wall: 1 year (What is the moving wall?) The "moving wall" represents the time period between the last issue available in JSTOR and the most recently published issue of a journal. Moving walls are generally represented in years. In rare instances, a publisher has elected to have a "zero" moving wall, so their current issues are available in JSTOR shortly after publication. Note: In calculating the moving wall, the current year is not counted. For example, if the current year is 2008 and a journal has a 5 year moving wall, articles from the year 2002 are available. Terms Related to the Moving Wall Fixed walls: Journals with no new volumes being added to the archive. Absorbed: Journals that are combined with another title. Complete: Journals that are no longer published or that have been combined with another title. ISSN: 00434078 Subjects: Political Science, Social Sciences Collections: Arts & Sciences II Collection, JSTOR Archival Journal & Primary Source Collection, JSTOR Essential Collection × Close Overlay Article Tools Cite this Item Journal Info Article Thumbnails References You have javascript disabled. In order to preview this item and view access options please enable javascript. Since scans are not currently available to screen readers, please contact JSTOR User Support for access. We'll provide a PDF copy for your screen reader. PREVIEW Preview not available The Western Political Quarterly © 1950 University of Utah Request Permissions Read Online Free Read Online (Free) relies on page scans, which are not currently available to screen readers. To access this article, please contact JSTOR User Support. We'll provide a PDF copy for your screen reader. With a personal account, you can read up to 100 articles each month for free. Get Started Already have an account? Login Login via your institution × Close Overlay Subscribe to JPASS Monthly Plan Access everything in the JPASS collection Read the full-text of every article Download up to 10 article PDFs to save and keep $19.50/month Yearly Plan Access everything in the JPASS collection Read the full-text of every article Download up to 120 article PDFs to save and keep $199/year Login via your institution × Close Overlay Log in through your library to get access Check to see if your institution has access to this content. Find My Institution Learn More × Close Overlay EXPANDED ACCESS DURING COVID-19 To support researchers during this challenging time in which many are unable to get to physical libraries, we have expanded our free read-online access to 100 articles per month through June 30, 2020. Log in or Register to read this article for free. Explore JSTOR By Subject By Title By Publisher Advanced Search Data for Research Get Access Support Libguides Research Basics About JSTOR Mission and History What's in JSTOR Get JSTOR News Events JSTOR Labs JSTOR Daily Careers Contact Us For Librarians For Publishers JSTOR is part of ITHAKA, a not-for-profit organization helping the academic community use digital technologies to preserve the scholarly record and to advance research and teaching in sustainable ways. ©2000-2020 ITHAKA. All Rights Reserved. JSTOR®, the JSTOR logo, JPASS®, Artstor®, and ITHAKA® are registered trademarks of ITHAKA. Terms & Conditions of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Loading Processing your request... × Close Overlay