https://books.google.com/books?id=XdSmtbZg9_YC
Electoral College Reform: Challenges and Possibilities - Google Books
Sign in Hidden fields Books Try the new Google Books Check out the new look and enjoy easier access to your favorite features Try it now No thanks Try the new Google Books Try the new Google Books My library Help Advanced Book Search View eBook Get this book in print Amazon.com Barnes&Noble.com - $149.95 Books-A-Million IndieBound Find in a library All sellers » Electoral College Reform: Challenges and Possibilities Dr Gary Bugh Ashgate Publishing, Ltd., Feb 28, 2013 - Law - 306 pages 0 Reviews The United States has not updated the Electoral College system since the Twelfth Amendment was ratified in 1804, despite public opinion polls showing a majority of Americans are in favor of changing or outright abolishing it. So why hasn't the United States reformed this system? Electoral College Reform brings together new essays examining all aspects of this crucial debate, including the reasons for reform, the issues surrounding a constitutional amendment, the effect of the Electoral College on political campaigns and the possibilities for extra-constitutional avenues to change. The authors consider both the Federalists' vision of balanced representation and a more democratic and equality-based ideal. These competing frameworks, perhaps more than any other factor, account for centuries of American indecision on this key issue. By offering an unprecedented and carefully researched analysis of an always controversial subject, this volume explores the potential for changing a system that many contend is long overdue. What people are saying - Write a review We haven't found any reviews in the usual places. Other editions - View all Electoral College Reform: Challenges and Possibilities Dr Gary Bugh Limited preview - 2013 Electoral College Reform: Challenges and Possibilities Gary Bugh Limited preview - 2016 Electoral College Reform: Challenges and Possibilities Gary Bugh Limited preview - 2016 View all » About the author (2013) Gary Bugh is Associate Professor and Chair of the Political Science Department at Texas A&M University-Texarkana, where he teaches American Political Theory, Constitutional Law, Federalism, Intergovernmental Politics, the Presidency, and Political Parties. George C. Edwards III, Gary E. Bugh, Michael T. Rogers, Michael J. Korzi, Jeffrey M. Stonecash, Mark J. McKenzie, Brian J. Gaines, James P. Melcher, Jody C. Baumgartner, Rhonda Evans Case, Robert M. Alexander, Brendan J. Doherty, Robert W. Bennett, Paul D. Schumaker, Burdett A. Loomis. Bibliographic information Title Electoral College Reform: Challenges and Possibilities Election Law, Politics, and Theory Editor Dr Gary Bugh Contributor Professor David Schultz Edition revised Publisher Ashgate Publishing, Ltd., 2013 ISBN 1409497046, 9781409497042 Length 306 pages Subjects Law › Jurisprudence Law / Jurisprudence Export Citation BiBTeX EndNote RefMan About Google Books - Privacy Policy - Terms of Service - Information for Publishers - Report an issue - Help - Google Home