https://www.researchgate.net/publication/282575990_The_Ten_Most_Competitive_American_Presidential_Elections
(PDF) The Ten Most Competitive American Presidential Elections. [An update on this paper is available: Reinterpreting the 2016 Election and Presidential Election Competition]
We use cookies to make interactions with our website easy and meaningful, to better understand the use of our services, and to tailor advertising. For further information, including about cookie settings, please read our Cookie Policy . By continuing to use this site, you consent to the use of cookies.Got it We value your privacy We use cookies to offer you a better experience, personalize content, tailor advertising, provide social media features, and better understand the use of our services. To learn more or modify/prevent the use of cookies, see our Cookie Policy and Privacy Policy. Accept Cookies ResearchPDF Available The Ten Most Competitive American Presidential Elections. [An update on this paper is available: Reinterpreting the 2016 Election and Presidential Election Competition] October 2015 DOI: 10.13140/RG.2.1.2497.0960 Douglas Dana Rose Download file Download file Download citation Copy link Link copied Download citation Copy link Link copied Abstract What are the most competitive of the presidential elections in the history of the United States? A review of closely contested elections suggests important dimensions of competition and also some limits on our ability to compare the competitiveness of these quadrennial events. This paper focuses on the concept of changing electoral college winner outcomes as a key, measurable feature of presidential competition in the popular vote era. Using the Presidential Competitiveness Index (PCI), a list of the ten most competitive elections is created and each election is briefly discussed. Finally, competition among the top two and other candidates is tracked over time. On balance, American presidential elections are fairly competitive, due to the presence of routine two-party competition, including in any era a few closely contested elections. Periodically, competition erupts beyond the boundaries of the two-party system, providing the most dramatic and competitive historical examples. An appendix presents PCI scores for the 1824-2012 elections, along with the contributions of each candidate to competitiveness. Discover the world's research 17+ million members 135+ million publications 700k+ research projectsJoin for free Advertisement Citations (0) References (0) ResearchGate has not been able to resolve any citations for this publication. ResearchGate has not been able to resolve any references for this publication. Advertisement Recommendations Discover more Project American Presidential Election Competition in 2016 Douglas Dana RoseView project Project Cumulative Dividend Growth Rate Douglas Dana RoseView project Project National and Local Forces in American State Politics Douglas Dana RoseView project Project Measuring Election Competition Douglas Dana RoseView project Research Full-text available Measuring Presidential Competition October 2015 Douglas Dana Rose This paper presents a method of measuring competition in U. S. presidential elections that is grounded in a conception of competition, a model of partisan forces, a measure of competition for winner-take-all popular vote elections, and the characteristics of the electoral college. The Presidential Competition Index (PCI) presented here takes account of the crucial role in US presidential ... [Show full abstract] elections that is played by the electoral college, especially its winner-take-all provisions in almost all states. The index builds on a model of voting focusing on multiplicative candidate factors operating nationwide, mediated in each state by a candidate interaction factor and a state factor indicating turnout. Multi-candidate contests offer the potential for greater competition than do two-candidate contests because the outcome could have been changed, following a change in candidate factors, in more than one candidate’s favor. These multicandidate contests are accommodated in the competition index – indeed, the index reserves 42% for multicandidate aspects of competition. By including multicandidate competition, the index allows comparison among the full actual range of popular vote contests for president in the USA. While the calculations to derive vote shifts necessary to produce a changed electoral college outcome are unique to the competition index presented here, once the total competitive popular vote is calculated, the calculations and results of the competition index are similar to those for the Draw Index for direct popular vote contests, so that the competitiveness of presidential elections can be compared, despite the unique electoral college, with other winner-take-all elections. Two alternative methods of summing competition across candidacies are considered in an appendix. A companion paper presents PCI measurements for all presidential election contests.View full-text Working Paper Full-text available American Presidential Election Competition in 2016, version 2 October 2016 Douglas Dana RoseView full-text Working Paper Full-text available American Presidential Election Competition in 2016 September 2016 Douglas Dana RoseView full-text Working Paper Full-text available Reinterpreting the 2016 Election and Presidential Election Competition August 2017 Douglas Dana RoseView full-text Publication Authors Loading... or Discover by subject area Recruit researchers Join for free Login Email Tip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as their ResearchGate login PasswordForgot password? Keep me logged in Log in or Continue with LinkedIn Continue with Google Welcome back! Please log in. Email · Hint Tip: Most researchers use their institutional email address as their ResearchGate login PasswordForgot password? Keep me logged in Log in or Continue with LinkedIn Continue with Google No account? Sign up Discover the world's research Join ResearchGate to find the people and research you need to help your work. Join for free ResearchGate iOS App Get it from the App Store now. Install Keep up with your stats and more Access scientific knowledge from anywhere Company About us News Careers Support Help Center Business solutions Advertising Recruiting © 2008-2020 ResearchGate GmbH. All rights reserved. Terms Privacy Copyright Imprint