https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/time-running-short-for-new-2020-democrats-to-jump-in-as-filing-deadlines-approach
Time running short for new 2020 Democrats to jump in as filing deadlines approach
Politics White House Congress Campaigns States 2020 Election All Politics Policy Defense & National Security Energy Healthcare Finance & Economy Tech & Cyber Budgets & Spending Courts Foreign All Policy News Opinion Editorials Columnists Byron York Salena Zito Michael Barone Paul Bedard Philip Klein Timothy P. Carney Kristen Soltis Anderson David Freddoso Fred Barnes Hugo Gurdon Dan Hannan Stephen Moore Noemie Emery Contributors Op-Eds Letters to the Editor Editorial Cartoons All Opinion Business Magazine Latest Edition All Magazine Editions Digital Reader Member Login Member Access Multimedia Videos Podcasts Series Beltway Confidential Washington Secrets Newsletters Wednesday April 29, 2020 Byron York's Daily Memo: Who will be first to ask... Wednesday April 29, 2020 Survey finds Coloradans favor stay-at-home order... Search Complete D.C. Coverage * Weekly Video with Editor Must-Read Picks * More. The Washington Examiner Magazine, Digital Edition. Wednesday, April 29, 2020 Politics White House Congress Campaigns States 2020 Election All Politics Policy Defense & National Security Energy Healthcare Finance & Economy Tech & Cyber Budgets & Spending Courts Foreign All Policy News Opinion Editorials Columnists Byron York Salena Zito Michael Barone Paul Bedard Philip Klein Timothy P. Carney Kristen Soltis Anderson David Freddoso Fred Barnes Hugo Gurdon Dan Hannan Stephen Moore Noemie Emery Contributors Op-Eds Letters to the Editor Editorial Cartoons All Opinion Business Magazine Latest Edition All Magazine Editions Digital Reader Member Login Member Access Multimedia Videos Podcasts Series Beltway Confidential Washington Secrets Newsletters Time running short for new 2020 Democrats to jump in as filing deadlines approach by Emily Larsen | October 25, 2019 12:01 AM Print this article For any Democrats anxious about whether any of the party’s top presidential candidates are electable enough to take on President Trump and hoping for another alternative to join, the window for a viable candidate to join the race is quickly closing. Hillary Clinton, Michael Bloomberg, and Eric Holder are all rumored to have considered joining the race after seeing Joe Biden lose steam in his candidacy and Elizabeth Warren gain momentum, with some Democrats worrying that Warren could turn off swing-state voters. Dick’s Sporting Goods CEO Ed Stack, a longtime Republican donor, is also rumored to be considering a presidential run as a third-party candidate. But candidates hoping to compete for early state nominating contests must consider filing deadlines, which begin in early November, giving potential candidates only a few weeks to announce their candidacy and create any campaign infrastructure. New Hampshire’s Democratic primary ballot access filing deadline for the Feb. 11 first-in-the-nation primary is Nov. 15. Deadlines for March 3 Super Tuesday states Alabama, Arkansas, and California are Nov. 8, Nov. 12, and Nov. 26, respectively. Most of the 10 other states expected to hold primaries on Super Tuesday have ballot access deadlines in December. Those hoping to make a splash in the first-in-the-nation Feb. 3 Iowa caucuses have a bit more time, with a Jan. 19 deadline. Nevada’s deadline for the Feb. 22 caucuses is Jan. 1, and South Carolina’s Feb. 29 primary has a Dec. 4 deadline. Requirements for filing vary by state, with some requiring candidates to submit thousands of signatures from residents who support their candidacy and many state parties requiring contributions of up to $2,500 to the state party to be on the ballot. State primaries and caucuses are important because they dictate how states will allocate pledged delegates to vote for candidates at the Democratic National Convention. But Richard Winger, editor of Ballot Access News, noted that participating in any or all the primaries is not technically necessary to secure the party’s presidential nomination. “Back in 1968, Hubert Humphrey didn’t run in a single Democratic presidential primary, but he still got the nomination,” Winger told the Washington Examiner. “If the convention is deadlocked on the first ballot and even the second ballot, anyone can get nominated whether they run in the primaries or not. I mean, the real purpose of primaries is to choose delegates to the national convention, and the party can do what it wants once it’s in a convention, especially when they’re deadlocked.” Automatic delegates, also called “superdelegates,” are not required to pledge support to any candidate and will vote at the 2020 convention if no candidate is chosen during the first round of voting. Brokered conventions, however, are rare. Any candidate who jumps in at this late stage also runs the risk of frustrating Democratic voters already overwhelmed by a large field of presidential hopefuls. “I don't think we need more people. I think we need less,” Leann Cortimiglia, a 61-year-old retired nurse from Coralville, Iowa, told the Washington Examiner. “I think the Democrats are tired of having so many voices at the table.” Lower-tier Democratic presidential hopefuls have used speculation about Clinton or others joining the race and anxiety about current front-runners as an opportunity to renew their pitch as to why they should be the party's nominee. "To those Democrats who are looking for an alternative right now," New Jersey Sen. Cory Booker said at the National Press Club in Washington on Wednesday, "I want to make the case today very directly: Look no further." Naomi Lim contributed to this story. News 2020 Elections Hillary Clinton Campaigns Michael Bloomberg Share your thoughts with friends. More Washington Examiner Survey finds Coloradans favor stay-at-home order over reopening economy Michael McGrady, The Center Square Wednesday April 29, 2020 The majority of Colorado residents believe that the state’s economy should stay closed for a few more weeks and the stay-at-home order should be continued in order to diminish COVID-19, a recent survey found. 'Thrilled': Boris Johnson and his fiancee welcome newborn son Madison Dibble Wednesday April 29, 2020 British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and his fiancee Carrie Symonds are the new parents of a baby boy. De Blasio criticized for singling out Jewish people in vow to crack down on large gatherings Madison Dibble Wednesday April 29, 2020 New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio faced backlash and accusations of anti-Semitism after he vowed to have the police arrest Jewish people violating social distancing guidelines. Merkel's revived hold on power forces Trump to work with a leader he dislikes to confront China Joel Gehrke Wednesday April 29, 2020 President Trump will unexpectedly be forced to work with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, with whom he has been at loggerheads in the past, to confront poised threats from China amid the coronavirus pandemic. After 2016 shock Democrats scared of their own shadow in facing Trump Naomi Lim Wednesday April 29, 2020 Three-and-a-half years after President Trump's surprise victory over Hillary Clinton, many Democrats remain haunted by her failure to defeat the most unqualified, dangerous and reckless person — in their view — ever to sit in the Oval Office. Russian presence in Libya more dangerous than ISIS says US Africa Command Abraham Mahshie Wednesday April 29, 2020 Gen. Khalifa Haftar, the rebel leader who controls Libya’s oil-rich east, recently declared he has a popular mandate to rule all of the North African nation, a move that may give Russia the upper hand if he can succeed in taking Tripoli amid nearly a decade's worth of sectarian strife. Democrats ramp up demand for massive bailout of state and local governments Susan Ferrechio Wednesday April 29, 2020 House and Senate Democrats are escalating calls for an historic federal bailout of state and local governments coping with significant revenue losses due to the coronavirus outbreak. Sessions supports Trump immigration order though president backs his less-hawkish primary opponent W. James Antle III Wednesday April 29, 2020 Former Attorney General Jeff Sessions, running to reclaim the Alabama Senate seat he gave up to oversee the Justice Department, is one immigration hawk praising President Trump’s executive order halting most new green cards while the coronavirus rages. The media owe Brett Kavanaugh an apology Washington Examiner Wednesday April 29, 2020 Without a shred of evidence that Brett Kavanaugh had ever even met Christine Blasey Ford, the news media decided the then-Supreme Court nominee was guilty of an unconscionable sexual assault four decades ago. Kavanaugh went overnight from being understood to be a consummate legal star, women’s advocate, and faithful family man, to being depicted as a sleazy drunkard and would-be rapist. US reaches 1M coronavirus cases as lockdowns ease Cassidy Morrison Wednesday April 29, 2020 The United States had over 1 million confirmed coronavirus cases as of Tuesday, accounting for about a third of the global tally. Why Justin Amash's moment is now Tiana Lowe Tuesday April 28, 2020 At the beginning of 2020, President Trump presided over the finest economy in generations, and a Castro-praising socialist seemed poised to win the Democratic presidential nomination. But in just 10 weeks, Joe Biden surprisingly vanquished Bernie Sanders, and the economy came to a man-made halt to prevent the spread of a deadly pandemic. Meanwhile, the consequences of record national debt and deficits have suddenly become serious, and the chosen Democratic challenger to our philandering president faces an explosive sexual assault claim of his own. CNN legal analyst: Barr 'trying to tenderize' Flynn case for Trump to step in Caitlin Yilek Tuesday April 28, 2020 A CNN legal analyst asserted the Justice Department is setting the stage for President Trump to pardon his former national security adviser Michael Flynn, who is fighting to dismiss the government's case against him. Andrew Yang sues New York over Democratic primary cancellation Caitlin Yilek Tuesday April 28, 2020 Former Democratic presidential candidate Andrew Yang is suing the New York State Board of Elections after it voted to remove Sen. Bernie Sanders from the primary ballot, effectively canceling the state’s presidential voting contest. Romney urges Trump to bring on ‘experts in crisis management’ in coronavirus response Caitlin Yilek Tuesday April 28, 2020 Sen. Mitt Romney encouraged President Trump to bring in new people to help him lead the federal government’s response to the coronavirus pandemic. Biden and Trump campaigns squabble over Pence-mask furor Naomi Lim Tuesday April 28, 2020 The Biden and Trump campaigns are bickering over Vice President Mike Pence's decision not to wear a face mask during a visit to a Minnesota Mayo Clinic. DOJ releases dozens of Roger Stone search warrants Jerry Dunleavy Tuesday April 28, 2020 The Justice Department released 33 search warrants stemming from the investigation of now-convicted Donald Trump associate Roger Stone, showing the searches began in the fall of 2017 and focused on Stone’s alleged outreach to WikiLeaks and Russia-linked accounts. About Examiner Magazine Archive Staff Advertise Contact Subscribe Newsletters Careers Facebook Twitter Terms Of Use Privacy Policy Copyright 2020. Washington Examiner. All Rights Reserved.