http://learning.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/02/18/should-convicted-felons-be-allowed-to-vote-after-theyve-served-their-time/
Should Felons Be Allowed to Vote After They Have Served Their Time? - The New York Times
Sections Home Search Skip to content The New York Times The Learning Network | Should Felons Be Allowed to Vote After They Have Served Their Time? Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Supported by Search Should Felons Be Allowed to Vote After They Have Served Their Time? By Michael Gonchar February 18, 2014 5:00 am February 18, 2014 5:00 am Photo Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr., testifying before the Senate Judiciary Committee last month. Mr. Holder has made clear he sees criminal justice and civil rights as inescapably joined. Related Article Credit Mark Wilson/Getty Images Questions about issues in the news for students 13 and older. See All Student Opinion » Almost six million Americans have been stripped of their right to vote — many for the rest of their lives. Most states prohibit prisoners in jail from voting, but some states bar felons from ever voting, even decades after they are released, unless they receive clemency from the governor. Felonies can include violent crimes like murder and assault, but also nonviolent crimes like tax evasion, drug dealing and check fraud. Should people convicted of felonies ever be allowed to vote? In “Holder Urges States to Lift Bans on Felons’ Voting,” Matt Apuzzo writes: Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. called Tuesday for the repeal of laws that prohibit millions of felons from voting, underscoring the Obama administration’s determination to elevate issues of criminal justice and race in the president’s second term and create a lasting civil rights legacy. In a speech at Georgetown University, Mr. Holder described today’s prohibitions — which in some cases bar those convicted from voting for life — as a vestige of the racist policies of the South after the Civil War, when states used the criminal justice system to keep blacks from fully participating in society. “Those swept up in this system too often had their rights rescinded, their dignity diminished, and the full measure of their citizenship revoked for the rest of their lives,” Mr. Holder said. “They could not vote.” Mr. Holder has no authority to enact the changes he called for, given that states establish the rules under which people can vote. The Times Editorial Board also weighs in on the subject in “6 Million Americans Without a Voice”: The right to vote is the foundation of any democracy, yet nearly six million Americans are denied that right, in many cases for life, because they have been convicted of a crime. Some states disenfranchise more than 7 percent of their adult citizens. … State laws that disenfranchise people who have served their time “defy the principles — of accountability and rehabilitation — that guide our criminal justice policies,” Mr. Holder said in urging state lawmakers to repeal them. “By perpetuating the stigma and isolation imposed on formerly incarcerated individuals, these laws increase the likelihood they will commit future crimes.” Students: Read both articles, then tell us … — Should people convicted of felonies ever be allowed to vote? — Does someone give up the right to participate in our democracy by committing a felony at any point in life? For example, passing a $100 bad check carries a lifetime ban from voting in Mississippi. Does that seem right or fair? — After prisoners are released from jail and have fulfilled the terms of their parole, have they paid their debt to society? Should they be given a second chance to the rights of being a citizen? — In Florida, Kentucky and Virginia, more than one in five African-Americans cannot vote because of a conviction. Mr. Holder said that today’s prohibitions “echo policies enacted during a deeply troubled period in America’s past — a time of post-Civil War repression” — when states kept freed blacks from fully participating in society. What is your response to Mr. Holder’s comments? — What argument do you think someone could make to support a lifetime ban on voting for felons? Do you think those arguments are persuasive? Why? Students 13 and older are invited to comment below. Please use only your first name. For privacy policy reasons, we will not publish student comments that include a last name. Comments are no longer being accepted. Leah February 18, 2014 · 11:13 am I really dont know if they should be able to but then again I think maybe. How would we know if they care about who they are voting for anyways what if they just vote and that would be dumb because they need to read about that person they are voting for otherwise it would be stupid for the to vote. We need people to vote for people who are going to make a difference. Will February 18, 2014 · 11:27 am I find it ironic that this assignment directing people to think about a disenfranchised subset of the population makes no mention of the fact that its target audience are themselves disenfranchised. There are over 15 million high school students who are legally barred from voting. Looking just at those aged 16-17.99 still gives a larger population than the country’s felons, yet these students have done nothing wrong. Because their interests cannot be advanced through voting, they endure overcrowded schools, decreased funding, lower quality educations than their peers in much of the developed world, and all too often violent conditions. Trey H. February 18, 2014 · 12:48 pm I guess…It would be fair to let them vote AFTER they served their time..If they have like more than a certain amount then i don’t think it’s a good idea.. Paulette February 18, 2014 · 1:00 pm Yeah felons should have a right to vote like everyone else because we need all the votes we can get. Kirsten February 18, 2014 · 1:01 pm It wouldn’t matter to me. I mean you did a crime but you paid your time. Felipe February 18, 2014 · 1:01 pm I really don’t think that it matters they are in jail so its okay. They can stay in there so no one is getting injured or hurt. They don’t lose there right anyways. All states should let everyone vote even if they are in jail for some reason. Kaylyn February 18, 2014 · 1:01 pm yes Nick February 18, 2014 · 1:02 pm It doesnt matter to me whether or not they are allowed to vote or not after serving their time. More importantly why does it matter? Just let them vote if they want to or not. candy February 18, 2014 · 1:03 pm I think that yes they should be allowed to vote. It’s like your taking freedom from those who live in a free country. I think if they have done thier time then they should be able to do as they please. I think they should also have a say so in what goes on in our country and who leads it. Brittany R February 18, 2014 · 1:06 pm I think they should do that to the people that do bad things and let the people that don’t do bad things vote. sarahcapps February 18, 2014 · 1:11 pm I think that they should because they deserve to have that freedom to vote but it also depends on if they are eligable to vote. Dæjee February 19, 2014 · 8:13 am No Elizabeth February 19, 2014 · 8:20 am I believe that felons should be able to vote. Once they served their time in jail, doesn’t that mean that they can leave and participate in public democracies? They did something wrong, yes, but must they be haunted their entire life by it through constant reminders of their hard times? Maybe a predetermined time limit to make a statement that would make sure they didn’t commit a felony again, but not for the rest of their life. Carly February 19, 2014 · 8:21 am Although voting IS an American right, I do not think felons should be allowed to vote after they have served their time. Americans have more freedom than many other countries, and along with that freedom comes great priveleges. To keep citizens from taking advantageof their freedoms and priveleges, America MUST have laws. All Americans are expected to obey them, recieving priveleges in return. If you obey the law, you can own a beautiful home and live comfortably with your family. You can attend school, work, and as many activities as you want. If you disobey the law, a majority of your time will be spent in a jail cell, away from your family and friends. When felons have served their time, who’s to say they won’t commit a felony again? If you reward them with their voting privelege again, who’s to say that that re-gained freedom will keep them from disobeying the law? Why reward them for serving their time, when they might commit a felony again? I believe that once you break the law, you have disobeyed your country and don’t deserve the full priveleges that you have taken for granted. mitchell February 19, 2014 · 8:47 am The adventure I would like to take would be to climb a volcano an stand at the top jamiyah February 19, 2014 · 8:49 am Yes, I feel felons should be allowed to vote because just to have broken the law before doesn’t mean that after you have served your time that you shouldn’t be able to give your opinion on how things are to be run in the country that you live in. Dennis113 February 19, 2014 · 9:44 am People that have been convicted of a crime should still be able to vote. They abused their rights of freedom and lost those rights, but they should still be able to vote. I don’t think it’s fair to strip there vote because the check was bad. What if that check was expired and they didn’t know. Yes they should they did their time and now it’s over people will remember but that part is over. Racism it still happens today, people hating on blacks. Black people weren’t able to vote for a long time and now they can but some states prohibit blacks from voting for a new governor and other positions. Brenda February 19, 2014 · 10:24 am them being felons should have no influence on their voting. they should have the right everyone else does and not it being taken away. Cassandra113 February 19, 2014 · 10:46 am I think felons should be able to vote, because they have served there time and it obviously wasn’t big crime if they didn’t get life sentenced so they should be able to vote. If the felon doesn’t have any problems such as health and other disorders then I don’t understand why they aren’t able to vote like any other person in society. What I’m trying to get to is that no longer felons should be able to vote like any other person. Jack113 February 19, 2014 · 12:39 pm Felons should have the right to vote after they have served their time. If they have fulfilled the terms of their parole then they should be able to become a regular citizen. But being a regular citizen requires the ability to vote. Just because they are felons does not mean that they do not care about who gets elected. Plus felons who do not want to be a product member of society are not going to vote. So felons should have the right to vote. Robert February 19, 2014 · 12:39 pm In think felons should be allowed to vote after they serverd time. I mean , after they server their time they should be free to vote like every other person . I think government doesnt wont to let them vote because if u are on voting list and on the end you are voted , all TV News and newspapers will write something like ” Felons favorite voted ” and nobody likes that type of fame . Jared M 113 February 19, 2014 · 12:43 pm I believe that previous felons should be allowed to vote because even if they served the time they have deserved the right to be free. And to be free is to have basic American rights. One of those rights is to vote. Even because of their crimes they shouldn’t be seen as criminals if they have served their time and payed their dues. Voting should be allowed for felons because they would vote for what they want and what’s right. Sara113 February 19, 2014 · 12:51 pm I do believe that felons should be allowed to vote for two main reasons. One, many innocent people have been convicted and put into jail because their trial went wrong or for another reason. Then, these people have natural rights stripped from them, and voting is something to help “justify” it all, even if it’s a small gift. After all, if they vote for a new representative or other (government) official, The other main reason is that we have the Electoral College. Those are the votes that actually make the choice of president. Think about it; more people voted for John F. Kennedy’s opponent then for him, but since the Electoral College voted for Kennedy, he became president. Brandon T February 19, 2014 · 1:06 pm yes, its stupid not to let them vote, how can letting them vote ruin the future vote picks? i dont understand the rest of the questions, sorry Rachel L February 19, 2014 · 2:39 pm I think the felons should have the right to vote depending on why they were in jail. If they were in jail for a few years, we should still want to know what they think and feel about the future, but if they are in jail for 20-25 years or life, I don’t think they should vote. What's Next Loading... Previous Post 6 Q’s About the News | Recent College Graduates and Internships Next Post Word of the Day | marital Weekly Newsletter Sign up for our free newsletter. Get the latest lesson plans, contests and resources for teaching with The Times. Subscribe Now Follow The Learning Network on Twitter Facebook © 2017 The New York Times Company Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions