http://www.ballot-access.org/2008/07/10/guam-legislature-moves-general-election-presidential-vote-to-the-september-primary/
Guam Legislature Moves General Election Presidential Vote to the September Primary | Ballot Access News
↓ Ballot Access News Edited By Richard Winger Home Menu ↓ Skip to primary content Skip to secondary content Home Print Issues Useful Information Links of Interest Extra Features Additional articles/essays Essays by Richard Winger Subscribe To Ballot Access News Home→General→Guam Legislature Moves General Election Presidential Vote to the September Primary Post navigation ← Socialist Workers On in Delaware for First Time Ever Another Lawsuit Over McCain Eligibility → Guam Legislature Moves General Election Presidential Vote to the September Primary Posted on July 10, 2008 by Richard Winger On July 10, the Guam legislature passed Bill 287, which moves the territory’s general election presidential vote from November, to the Guam primary. This year, the Guam primary is on Saturday, September 6. The Governor has until July 24 to sign or veto the bill. If it becomes law, it takes effect this year. Guam has been voting for president in the general election starting in 1980. Because Guam has no electoral votes, the vote is merely a “straw vote”. Guam has been holding a general election for president in order to draw attention to the fact that the residents of Guam are U.S. citizens, and they must obey the laws passed in Washington, yet they have neither a voting member of Congress, nor any meaningful presidential vote. The preamble to Bill Number 287 says that the U.S. media never report the Guam presidential vote, which is true. The bill’s preamble says, “It is therefore the intent of I Liheslatura to move the ‘straw poll’ for President and Vice-President from the general election to the primary election so that Guam’s choice for our nation’s highest leaders will be known in advance of the national general election, and draw attention to the continued disenfranchisement of the American citizens living in the American territory of Guam.” Guam is the only colonial possession of the U.S. to have ever held a general election vote for president. The Puerto Rico legislature passed a similar measure some years ago, but the Puerto Rican Supreme Court ruled that the measure violates the Puerto Rico Constitution. Presidential candidates get on the Guam general election presidential ballot by showing that they are on the ballot in at least one state, and by writing a letter to the Guam Election Commission. In 2004 the only candidates on the Guam ballot were Bush, Kerry, Nader and Badnarik. Posted in General permalink Post navigation ← Socialist Workers On in Delaware for First Time Ever Another Lawsuit Over McCain Eligibility → Comments Guam Legislature Moves General Election Presidential Vote to the September Primary — No Comments Phil on July 10, 2008 at 8:47 pm said: Does the Guam Election Commission choose to put some candidates on the ballot regardless of whether or not they request to be on the ballot (such as Bush and Kerry in 2004)? Or did those candidates actually request to be on the ballot? If so, my opinion of both has gone up slightly. Richard on July 11, 2008 at 7:40 am said: The Democratic and Republican Parties are qualified parties in Guam, so their presidential nominees are on automatically. Demo Rep on July 11, 2008 at 10:10 am said: U.S.A. Constitution — Amdt 28 NOW — Abolish the timebomb Electoral College. Uniform definition of Elector in ALL of the U.S.A. — States, DC, territories, colonies. P.R. for all legislative bodies. A.V. for all elected executive offices and all judges. — regardless of ALL ANTI-Democracy MORONS who learn nothing from history and pre-school math — like 2 is more than 1 (except with EVIL gerrymanders — advanced 1st grade EVIL math — 26 percent controlling 74 percent — half the votes in half the gerrymander districts). citizen1 on July 11, 2008 at 10:37 am said: If the bill passes will anyone but the dem and rep be on the ballot? Richard on July 11, 2008 at 11:41 am said: Sure, anyone who writes the letter by mid-August will be on. But they don’t get a label unless they show they are on the ballot in some state with that same label. Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. Meta: Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS WordPress.org Recent Posts: Justin Amash Announces His Candidacy for the Libertarian Presidential Nomination April 28, 2020 Andrew Yang Sues to Restore New York Democratic Presidential Primary April 28, 2020 Proponents of Four Massachusetts Initiative Campaigns Ask State Supreme Judicial Court to Allow Electronic Signatures April 28, 2020 Maryland Government Won’t Relax Petition Requirements for Minor Parties and Independent Candidates April 28, 2020 Recent Comments Ban Demo Rep on Andrew Yang Sues to Restore New York Democratic Presidential Primary Ban Demo Rep on Justin Amash Announces His Candidacy for the Libertarian Presidential Nomination Robert Milnes on Justin Amash Announces His Candidacy for the Libertarian Presidential Nomination Contact Info & Privacy Info: Richard Winger: P.O. Box 470296, San Francisco, CA 94147 richardwinger@yahoo.com (415) 922-9779 Privacy Policy The newsletter is published by and copyright by Richard Winger © 2020 - Ballot Access News Proudly powered by WordPress Weaver II by WP Weaver ↑