https://www.fairvote.org/faithless_elector_state_laws
Faithless Elector State Laws - FairVote
Donate Toggle navigation Menu Donate Problems Problems Polarization Gerrymandering Unfair Representation Limited Voter Choice Skewed Primary Elections Solutions Solutions Ranked Choice Voting Fair Representation Voting RCV for Presidential Nominations Presidential Primaries 2020 Resources Resources Ensuring Safe and Fair Elections in a Pandemic Research Reports Election Information → Election Information Collaborative Policymaking Congressional Elections Electoral Systems Presidential Elections Primaries Redistricting Voter Turnout Voting Rights Representation Data on RCV Reform Library Glossary of Terms Blog Media Media FairVote in the news Op-eds and Editorials Videos Press Releases Press Toolkit About Us About Us Our Story Staff and Leadership Board Financials Employment & Internships Get Involved x Resources Election Information Presidential Elections The Electoral College Faithless Elector State Laws Faithless Elector State Laws There are 32 states (plus the District of Columbia) that require electors to vote for a pledged candidate. Most of those states (17 plus DC) nonetheless do not provide for any penalty or any mechanism to prevent the deviant vote from counting as cast. Four states provide a penalty of some sort for a deviant vote, and 11 states provide for the vote to be canceled and the elector replaced (two states do both). In two states (Colorado and Maine), there is no state law providing for the canceling of an electors vote, but the Secretary of State has determined that it has the authority to cancel a deviant electors vote. The Uniform Law Commission has drafted and recommended a law called the Uniform Faithful Presidential Electors Act that provides for electors to pledge to vote for a candidate, and for them to be replaced with an alternate in the event that they do not vote as pledged. As of October 2019, that Act has been adopted by Indiana, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, and Washington. The constitutionality of some of these laws was recently cast into doubt by the 10th circuit court of appeals in Baca v. Colorado Department of State, No. 18-1173 (10th Cir. 2019), which found that states may not penalize electors or cancel their votes when the electors vote for a candidate other than their party's nominee. However, Baca did not apparently call into question the right of states to require electors to pledge to vote for their party's nominee, which the Supreme Court upheld in Ray v. Blair, 343 U.S. 214 (1952), just so long as they do not enforce that pledge through any sort of penalty or by canceling the vote. infogram_0_a9d0f929-2673-4f27-b853-01b94edbd0d3States Laws Binding Electors//e.infogr.am/js/dist/embed.js?FJ3text/javascript Share this: Facebook Twitter Email FairVote Democracy We need your support. Help us spread the love by pitching in today! Donate Join Us Today to Help Create a More Perfect Union Optional email code Home Problems Polarization Gerrymandering Unfair Representation Limited Voter Choice Skewed Primary Elections Solutions Ranked Choice Voting Fair Representation Voting RCV for Presidential Nominations Presidential Primaries 2020 Resources Ensuring Safe and Fair Elections in a Pandemic Research Reports Election Information → Election Information Collaborative Policymaking Congressional Elections Electoral Systems Presidential Elections Primaries Redistricting Voter Turnout Voting Rights Representation Data on RCV Reform Library Glossary of Terms Blog Media FairVote in the news Op-eds and Editorials Videos Press Releases Press Toolkit About Us Our Story Staff and Leadership Board Financials Employment & Internships Get Involved 6930 Carroll Avenue, Suite 240 • Takoma Park, MD 20912 • 301-270-4616 • info@fairvote.org • Contact us Privacy Policy • Terms of Service Built by Veracity Media on NationBuilder