https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Austin_American-Statesman
Austin American-Statesman - Wikipedia
Austin American-Statesman From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Daily broadsheet newspaper published in Austin, Texas Austin American-Statesman Austin American-Statesman building Type Daily newspaper Format Broadsheet Owner(s) Gannett Publisher Patrick Dorsey Editor John Bridges Founded 1871 (as the Democratic Statesman) Headquarters 305 South Congress Avenue Austin, Texas 78704 Circulation 129,519 daily 183,685 Sunday[1] ISSN 1553-8451 Website statesman.com The Austin American-Statesman is the major daily newspaper for Austin, the capital city of Texas. It is owned by Gannett. The paper prints Associated Press, New York Times, The Washington Post and Los Angeles Times international and national news, but has strong Central Texas coverage, especially in political reporting. The Statesman benefits from the culture and writing heritage of Austin. It extensively covers the music scene, especially the annual South by Southwest Music Festival. The newspaper co-sponsors Austin events such as the Capital 10K, one of the largest 10K runs in the U.S., and the Season for Caring charity campaign. In the Austin market, the Statesman competes with the Austin Chronicle, an alternative weekly. The Statesman also publishes a weekly Spanish-language newspaper, ¡ahora sí!. Additionally, the Statesman partners with the St. Petersburg Times for PolitiFact Texas, which covers issues that are relevant to Texas and the Austin area. Contents 1 Circulation 2 Politics 3 History 4 Newsroom management and staff 5 See also 6 Notes 7 External links Circulation[edit] In 2009, the Austin American-Statesman ranked 60th in circulation among daily newspapers, according to the Audit Bureau of Circulations.[2] Figures from Scarborough Research show the Statesman — in print and online – reaches 68% of Central Texans in an average week.[3] Following a national trend among daily newspapers, the Statesman has seen circulation declines in recent years. Austin is one of America's most Internet-connected cities, though not ranked in the 25 largest "connected" cities, and, in a related trend, the Statesman's daily circulation ranks among those cities seeing drops of 5% or more in recent reports.[4] As compared to a U.S. national decline of 2.1%, the Statesman's daily circulation in the most recent six-month reporting period fell 5.6% to 173,527. Its Sunday circulation fell 5.5% to 215,984. Austin is the 11th largest city (and the 35th largest metropolitan area) in the U.S. Politics[edit] The Statesman endorsed George W. Bush in the 2000 and 2004 presidential elections,[5] and Republican governor Rick Perry along with every other Republican incumbent in 2006.[citation needed] In the 2008 presidential election, however, the paper endorsed Barack Obama.[5] The Statesman also provides coverage of the Libertarian Party and Green Party matters. History[edit] Founded as the tri-weekly[6] Democratic Statesman in 1871, the newspaper was originally allied with the state Democratic party during Reconstruction. It began daily publication as a morning paper in 1873. After absorbing the Austin Tribune in 1914, it published as the afternoon Austin Statesman and Tribune, then became an evening paper and changed its name to the Austin Evening Statesman in 1916.[7] A rival paper, the morning Austin American, began in 1914. Waco-based newspapermen Charles E. Marsh and E.S. Fentress bought the American in 1919 and the Evening Statesman in 1924. Merged under one company, the morning and evening papers published separately during the week and combined for a Sunday Austin American Statesman edition. The company continued separate titles until 1973, when all products became the American-Statesman, with four editions daily.[7] Cox Enterprises acquired the Statesman when it bought the Waco newspaper company in 1976. In 1987, the Statesman moved to morning-only publication.[7] In 2008, Cox put the Statesman up for sale with most of its other newspaper holdings in order to pay down debt.[8] A year later, the company pulled the paper off the market, citing a lack of suitable offers.[9] The newspaper was part of the subsidiary Cox Media Group, which joined the corporation's television, radio and newspaper assets under one umbrella in 2008.[10] The Statesman was named Texas Associated Press Managing Editors Newspaper of the Year in 2013, 2014 and 2016,[11] besting Houston, San Antonio and Dallas.[12][13][14] In 2015, ¡Ahora Sí! was named the best Spanish-language newspaper in the country for its circulation size by the National Association of Hispanic Publishers.[15] On March 6, 2018, the sale of the Statesman to GateHouse Media from Cox Media Group was announced.[16] Upon taking over in April, GateHouse said the Statesman would be the "flagship" of the expanding chain, noting its existing 240-employee design and editing hub in Austin.[17] Newsroom management and staff[edit] Executive Editor: John Bridges Managing Editor: Andy Alford Senior editor for digital: Courtney Sebesta Online news editor: Gabrielle Munoz Social media editor: Amanda O'Donnell Senior editor for sports : Jason Jarrett Business editor: Barry Harrell Features editor: Sharon Chapman Austin360 editor: Eric Webb Photo director: Nell Carroll Video editor: James Gregg State editor: Bob Gee Viewpoints editor: Juan Castillo The newspaper had a full-time arts writer, Jeanne Claire van Ryzin, who was hired in 1999. Her post was eliminated in 2016.[18] See also[edit] Journalism portal List of newspapers in Texas Notes[edit] ^ "Total Circ for US Newspapers". Alliance for Audited Media. Archived from the original on October 27, 2012. Retrieved June 9, 2013. ^ "Post Beats News". New York Post. Archived from the original on May 11, 2008. ^ [1] Archived April 7, 2008, at the Wayback Machine ^ [2] Archived February 5, 2010, at the Wayback Machine ^ a b Weiner, Rachel (October 17, 2008). "Newspapers That Backed Bush Shift To Obama". The Huffington Post. Retrieved August 4, 2009. ^ Once every three weeks. ^ a b c Bishop, Curtis; Schroeter, R. L. "Austin American-Statesman". Handbook of Texas Online. Texas State Historical Association. Retrieved July 5, 2012. ^ "Cox to sell off several newspapers, Valpak operations". Atlanta Business Chronicle. Retrieved November 18, 2014. ^ "Cox won't sell Austin American-Statesman newspaper". Reuters. Retrieved November 18, 2014. ^ "Cox Enterprises Announces New Business Organization: Cox Media Group". Coxenterprises.mediaroom.com. Retrieved November 18, 2014. ^ "American-Statesman named Texas' top newspaper". ^ "2014 Texas APME Awards List". Retrieved December 2, 2015. ^ "2015 Texas APME Awards List". Retrieved December 2, 2015. ^ "2016 Texas APME Awards List". Retrieved March 27, 2017. ^ http://www.statesman.com/news/news/local/statesmans-ahora-si-publication-wins-multiple-jose/nn8dQ/ ^ "American-Statesman being sold to GateHouse in $47.5M deal". ^ Shonda Novak; Brian Davis (April 3, 2018). "Statesman's new owner says Austin will be 'a flagship' for media group". Austin American-Statesman. Retrieved May 6, 2018. ^ Fares, Robert (November 30, 2016). "Statesman Cuts Arts Staff". Austin Chronicle. Retrieved December 15, 2017. External links[edit] Statesman.com Austin American-Statesman from the Handbook of Texas Online AhoraSi.com MyStatesman.com (subscription site) Austin360.com (entertainment site) Hookem.com -- for all things Longhorns Statesman on Facebook Statesman on Twitter StatesmanMedia.com (business site) StatesmanMediaPresents.com (B2B event site) v t e Gannett People John Jeffry Louis III (chairman) National assets USA Today Golfweek MMAjunkie.com Reviewed USA Today Sports Weekly v t e Gannett regional daily newspapers in the United States Abilene Reporter-News The Advocate Akron Beacon Journal Alice Echo-News Journal The Alliance Review Amarillo Globe-News The American News Ames Tribune Anderson Independent-Mail Alamogordo Daily News The Ardmoreite Argus Leader The Arizona Republic Asbury Park Press Asheville Citizen-Times Ashland Times-Gazette Athens Banner-Herald The Augusta Chronicle Austin American-Statesman Battle Creek Enquirer The Barnstable Patriot Bartlesville Examiner-Enterprise Bastrop Daily Enterprise The Baxter Bulletin Beauregard Daily News The Beaver County Times Boone News-Republican Boonville Daily News Brownwood Bulletin Bucks County Courier Times The Bulletin Burlington County Times The Burlington Free Press Butler County Times-Gazette Cambridge Chronicle Cape Cod Times Carlsbad Current-Argus The Carmi Times Charlevoix Courier Cheboygan Daily Tribune Chillicothe Constitution-Tribune Chillicothe Gazette The Cincinnati Enquirer The Clarion-Ledger The Columbus Dispatch Commercial Appeal Corpus Christi Caller-Times Coshocton Tribune The Courier-Journal Courier News Courier-Post Courier-Tribune The Crescent-News Crookston Daily Times The Daily Advertiser Daily American (IL) Daily American (PA) The Daily Comet Daily Commercial The Daily Herald The Daily Independent The Daily Jeffersonian The Daily Journal The Daily Leader The Daily Ledger Daily Messenger The Daily News Journal Daily Press The Daily Record Daily Record The Daily Reporter The Daily Republican Daily Review Atlas The Daily Telegram The Daily Times (Farmington) The Daily Times (Salisbury) Daily World The Daytona Beach News-Journal Deming Headlight Democrat and Chronicle The Des Moines Register Desert Dispatch The Desert Sun Detroit Free Press Devils Lake Journal The Dispatch Dodge City Daily Globe Du Quoin Evening Call El Paso Times Ellwood City Ledger The Enterprise Evansville Courier & Press The Evening News The Evening Sun The Evening Tribune Evening World The Examiner The Fayetteville Observer The Florida Times-Union Florida Today Fort Collins Coloradoan Foster's Daily Democrat The Gadsden Times The Gainesville Sun Garden City Telegram The Gaston Gazette Gaylord Herald Times Great Falls Tribune Green Bay Press-Gazette The Greenville News Hattiesburg American The Hawk Eye Hays Daily News Henderson Gleaner The Herald Democrat The Herald-Mail The Herald News The Herald-Times The Herald Times Reporter Hillsdale Daily News The Holland Sentinel Home News Tribune The Hoosier Topics The Houma Courier The Independent The Indianapolis Star The Inquirer and Mirror The Intelligencer Ionia Sentinel-Standard Iowa City Press-Citizen The Ithaca Journal The Jackson Sun Jacksonville Daily News Journal & Courier The Journal News The Journal Standard Journal Star Kinston Free Press Kitsap Sun Kirksville Daily Express Knoxville News Sentinel Lancaster Eagle-Gazette Lansing State Journal Las Cruces Sun-News The Leader The Leaf-Chronicle Leavenworth Times Lebanon Daily News The Ledger Leesville Daily Leader Lincoln Courier Lubbock Avalanche-Journal Mansfield News Journal The Marion Star Marshfield News-Herald The McDonough County Voice McPherson Sentinel The MetroWest Daily News The Mexico Ledger Milwaukee Journal Sentinel CNI Community Newspapers Miami News Record The Milford Daily News Mineral Daily News-Tribune Moberly Monitor-Index Montgomery Advertiser Mooresville-Decatur Times The Morning Sun Naples Daily News The Neosho Daily News New Jersey Herald News Chief The News Herald The News Leader The News Journal The News-Messenger The News-Press The News-Star The Newton Kansan Noblesville Daily Times Northwest Florida Daily News The Oak Ridger Observer-Dispatch The Oklahoman Olney Daily Mail Old Colony Memorial Oshkosh Northwestern Pacific Daily News Palladium-Item Palm Beach Daily News The Palm Beach Post The Patriot Ledger Pekin Daily Times Pensacola News Journal Petoskey News-Review Pine Bluff Commercial Pocono Record The Portsmouth Herald The Post-Crescent Poughkeepsie Journal Press & Sun-Bulletin The Progress-Index The Providence Journal Public Opinion The Pueblo Chieftain The Record Redding Record Searchlight The Register-Mail Reno Gazette-Journal Record-Courier The Record Herald The Reporter Reporter-Times The Repository Rockford Register Star The Rolla Daily News The St. Augustine Record St. Cloud Times The Salina Journal The Salinas Californian San Angelo Standard-Times Sarasota Herald-Tribune Savannah Morning News The Shawnee News-Star The Sheboygan Press The Shelby Star Silver City Sun News Siskiyou Daily News South Bend Tribune Southside Times Southwest Times Record Spartanburg Herald-Journal The Spectrum Springfield News-Leader The Standard-Times Star-Banner Star Courier Star-Gazette Star-News The Star Press The State Journal-Register Statesman Journal Stevens Point Journal Stephenville Empire-Tribune Stuart News Sturgis Journal Sun Journal (New Bern, North Carolina) Taunton Daily Gazette The Telegram Telegram & Gazette Telegraph-Forum The Tennessean The Times (Little Falls) The Times (Shreveport) The Times Herald Times Herald-Record Times Mail Times-News (Hendersonville) The Times-News (Burlington) Times Record News Times Recorder The Times-Reporter The Topeka Capital-Journal The Town Talk Treasure Coast Newspapers The Tribune-Democrat The Tuscaloosa News Tulare Advance-Register Ventura County Star Vero Beach Press Journal Visalia Times-Delta Watertown Public Opinion Wausau Daily Herald The Wayne Independent Waxahachie Daily Light The Wellington Daily News Wellsville Daily Reporter Wisconsin Rapids Daily Tribune York Daily Record v t e BridgeTower Media business publications in the United States Arizona Capitol Times Casual Living Central Penn Business Journal Charleston Regional Business Journal Columbia Regional Business Report The Countian – Jefferson County The Countian – St. Louis Daily Journal of Commerce (Oregon) Daily Journal of Commerce (Louisiana) Daily Record (Baltimore) The Daily Record (Rochester) The Daily Record – Kansas City The Daily Reporter Designers Today Finance & Commerce Furniture Today GSA Business Gifts & Decorative Accessories Home Accents Today Home Furnishings News Home Textiles Today Idaho Business Review The Journal Record Lehigh Valley Business Long Island Business News Massachusetts Lawyers Weekly The Mecklenburg Times Michigan Lawyers Weekly Minnesota Lawyer Missouri Lawyers Weekly NJBIZ New Orleans CityBusiness North Carolina Lawyers Weekly Pet Age Rhode Island Lawyers Weekly Rochester Business Journal SCBIZ South Carolina Lawyers Weekly St. Charles County Business Record St. Louis Daily Record Virginia Lawyers Weekly Wisconsin Law Journal v t e Newsquest daily newspapers in the United Kingdom The Argus, Brighton The Bolton News Telegraph & Argus, Bradford Daily Gazette, Colchester Bournemouth Daily Echo Dorset Echo Echo, Basildon, Essex Evening Times Greenock Telegraph The Herald, Glasgow News Shopper, South East London & North West Kent Lancashire Telegraph Oxford Mail The National, Scotland The Northern Echo The Press, York Southern Daily Echo, Southampton South Wales Argus Swindon Advertiser Worcester News Predecessors GateHouse Media American Consolidated Media Calkins Media Community Newspaper Company Halifax Media Group Hathaway Publishing Local Media Group Schurz Communications Stephens Media Journal Media Group Authority control ISNI: 0000 0004 0617 1804 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Austin_American-Statesman&oldid=927865845" Categories: Gannett publications Newspapers published in Austin, Texas Publications established in 1871 1871 establishments in Texas Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links Articles with short description Use mdy dates from October 2018 All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from August 2009 Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Español Français Italiano Türkçe Edit links This page was last edited on 25 November 2019, at 07:41 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view