https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Office_of_the_Clerk
Clerk of the United States House of Representatives - Wikipedia
Clerk of the United States House of Representatives From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia (Redirected from Office of the Clerk) Jump to navigation Jump to search "Clerk of the House of Representatives" redirects here. For the Australian office, see Clerk of the Australian House of Representatives. For the New Zealand office, see Clerk of the New Zealand House of Representatives. This article includes a list of references, but its sources remain unclear because it has insufficient inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (July 2010) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Clerk of the United States House of Representatives Incumbent Cheryl L. Johnson since February 26, 2019 Style Madam Clerk Appointer Elected by the House Term length Pleasure of the House (nominally a two-year Congress) Inaugural holder John Beckley Website Office of the Clerk The Clerk of the United States House of Representatives is an officer of the United States House of Representatives, whose primary duty is to act as the chief record-keeper for the House. Along with the other House officers, the Clerk is elected every two years when the House organizes for a new Congress. The majority and minority caucuses nominate candidates for the House officer positions after the election of the Speaker. The full House adopts a resolution to elect the officers, who will begin serving after they have taken the oath of office. The clerk is Cheryl L. Johnson, of Louisiana. She replaced Karen Haas at the beginning of the 116th Congress. Robert Reeves is Deputy Clerk and Gigi Kelaher is Senior Advisor to the Clerk.[1] On December 29, 2018, Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi named Cheryl Johnson to succeed Haas as Clerk.[2] Johnson was elected by the House of Representatives on February 25, 2019, as per House Resolution 143 and took the oath of office shortly after the passage of the resolution on the same day. The Constitution of the United States[3] states in Article 1, Section 2, “The House of Representatives shall chuse their Speaker and other Officers...” On April 1, 1789, when the House of Representatives convened with its first quorum,[4] its initial order of business was the election of the Speaker, Frederick Augustus Conrad Muhlenberg, a Representative from Pennsylvania. The next order of business was the election of the Clerk, John Beckley, Esquire, a citizen of Virginia. The first five Clerks of the House also served as Librarian of Congress, which became a separate position in 1815. South Trimble, a former Representative from Kentucky, who served as Clerk from 1911 to 1919 and again from 1931 to 1946, is the longest-tenured Clerk in House history.[5] Contents 1 Duties 2 History 3 List of clerks 4 Offices and services 4.1 Capitol Service Groups 4.2 House Page Program 4.3 Legislative Computer Systems (LCS) 4.4 Legislative Resource Center (LRC) 4.4.1 Legislative information 4.4.2 Public disclosure 4.4.3 House membership information 4.4.4 Support for congressional offices 4.5 Office of Art and Archives & Office of the Historian 4.6 Office of House Employment Counsel (OHEC) 4.7 Office of Legislative Operations 4.7.1 Bill clerks 4.7.2 Journal clerks 4.7.3 Tally clerks 4.7.4 Enrolling clerks 4.7.5 Reading clerks 4.8 Office of Publication Services (OPS) 4.9 Official reporters 5 See also 6 References 7 External links Duties[edit] This article is part of a series on the United States House of Representatives History of the United States House of Representatives Members Current members (by seniority by age non-voting) Former members Hill committees (DCCC NRCC) Congressional districts Speaker of the House (list of speakers list of elections) Party leaders Democratic Caucus Republican Conference Politics and procedure Committee of the Whole Closed session (list) Saxbe fix Committees (list) Procedures Origination Clause Quorum call Unanimous consent Salaries Apportionment (Huntington–Hill method) Redistricting Gerrymandering Articles of impeachment Self-executing rule Rules suspension General ticket Plural district Places United States Capitol House office buildings (Cannon Ford Longworth Rayburn) v t e Every two years regular congressional elections are held. Only one-third of Senators' terms expire at each of these elections, but the terms of office of the entire House end. The Senate has remained in constant existence since it first went into session in 1789 but the House goes out of existence (and hence a "new" Congress takes office) every two years. To preserve the legal continuity of the House, the existence of the House is vested in the Clerk at the end of each two-year term. Thus, when the newly elected members of the House gather on January 3, it is the Clerk who summons Representatives and convenes the new Congress for the first time. Accordingly, the Clerk gavels the House into session, chairs the body as it adopts its rules of order, and oversees the election of a Speaker under those rules. The Speaker then takes the chair and the House proceeds with its business (which includes electing a Clerk for the new session). Were the House not to vest such personality in the Clerk, there would be no legally empowered authority to convene the session and lead the House in its first few acts. Federal law requires the Clerk to notify each state government of the number of seats apportioned to the state no later than January 25 of the year immediately following each decennial census. Rule II of the House Rules requires the Clerk to: prepare the roll of Members-elect. call the Members-elect to order at the commencement of each Congress; to call the roll of Members-elect, and, pending the election of the Speaker, to preserve order and decorum; and to decide all questions of order. prepare and distribute at the beginning of every session a list of reports required to be made to Congress. note all questions of order, and decisions thereon, and to print these as an appendix to the Journal of each session of the House. prepare and print the House Journal after each session of Congress, and to distribute the Journal to Members and to the executive and the legislature of each State. attest and affix the seal of the House to all writs, warrants, and subpoenas and formal documents issued by the House. certify the passage by the House of all bills and joint resolutions. receive messages from the President and the Senate when the House is not in session. prepare and deliver messages to the Senate and otherwise as requested by the House. retain, in the official library, a permanent set of the books and documents generated by the House. manage the office and supervise the staff of any vacant Member (the vacancy may have occurred by expulsion, resignation, or death) until a successor is elected. In addition, the Clerk: acts as custodian of all noncurrent records of the House, pursuant to Rule VII. is responsible, under the supervision and direction of the U.S. House of Representatives Fine Arts Board, for the administration, maintenance, and display of the works of fine art and other similar property of the Congress for display or for other use in the House wing of the Capitol, the House Office Buildings, or any other location under the control of the House (P.L. 100-696). In addition, pursuant to the rules of the United States Preservation Commission, the Clerk may be asked to provide staff support and assistance to the Commission. History[edit] On April 1, 1789, the House of Representatives convened with its first quorum. Its initial order of business was the election of the Speaker, Frederick Augustus Conrad Muhlenberg, a Representative from Pennsylvania. The next order of business was the election of the Clerk, John Beckley, a citizen of Virginia. Although the Clerk's title is derived from that of the Clerk of the British House of Commons, the duties are similar to those prescribed for the Secretary of the Continental Congress in March 1785. In addition to the duties involved in organizing the House and presiding over its activities at the commencement of each Congress, the Clerk is charged with a number of legislative functions; some of these, such as the constitutional requirement of maintaining the House Journal, have existed from the time of the first Congress, whereas others have been added over the years because of changes in procedure and organization. List of clerks[edit] [6] Name State Years John Beckley Virginia 1789–1797 Jonathan Condy Pennsylvania 1797–1799 John Holt Oswald Pennsylvania 1799–1801 John Beckley Virginia 1801–1807 Patrick Magruder Maryland 1807–1815 Thomas Dougherty Kentucky 1815–1822 Matthew Clarke Pennsylvania 1822–1833 Walter Franklin Pennsylvania 1833–1838 Hugh Garland Virginia 1838–1841 Matthew Clarke Pennsylvania 1841–1843 Caleb J. McNulty Ohio 1843–1845 Benjamin Brown French New Hampshire 1845–1847 Thomas Campbell Tennessee 1847–1850 Richard M. Young Illinois 1850–1851 John Forney Pennsylvania 1851–1856 William Cullom Tennessee 1856–1857 James C. Allen Illinois 1857–1860 John Forney Pennsylvania 1860–1861 Emerson Etheridge Tennessee 1861–1863 Edward McPherson Pennsylvania 1863–1875 George Adams Kentucky 1875–1881 Edward McPherson Pennsylvania 1881–1883 John Clark Missouri 1883–1889 Edward McPherson Pennsylvania 1889–1891 James Kerr Pennsylvania 1891–1895 Alexander McDowell Pennsylvania 1895–1911 South Trimble Kentucky 1911–1919 William Tyler Page Maryland 1919–1931 South Trimble Kentucky 1931–1947 John Andrews Massachusetts 1947–1949 Ralph Roberts Indiana 1949–1953 Lyle Snader Illinois 1953–1955 Ralph Roberts Indiana 1955–1967 Pat Jennings Virginia 1967–1975 Edmund Henshaw Virginia 1975–1983 Benjamin Guthrie Maryland 1983–1987 Donnald Anderson California 1987–1995 Robin H. Carle Idaho 1995–1998 Jeff Trandahl South Dakota 1999–2005 Karen L. Haas Maryland 2005–2007 Lorraine Miller Texas 2007–2011 Karen L. Haas Maryland 2011–2019 Cheryl L. Johnson Louisiana 2019–present Offices and services[edit] In addition to the Clerk's Main Office, located in H154 of the U.S. Capitol, there are nine offices that fall under the Clerk's jurisdiction. Capitol Service Groups[edit] The Capitol Service Groups provide support services to the maintenance of the Republican and Democratic cloakrooms, the Lindy Claiborne Boggs Congressional Women’s Reading Room, the Members and Family Committee Room, and the Capitol Prayer Room. House Page Program[edit] Pages were high school juniors who served as support staff for the U.S. House of Representatives, either for one of two school semester sessions or one of two summer sessions. The program was discontinued in 2011. Legislative Computer Systems (LCS)[edit] The Legislative Computer Systems office provides technical support for offices under the Clerk and maintains the electronic voting system on the House floor.[7] Legislative Resource Center (LRC)[edit] The Legislative Resource Center (LRC), a division of the Office of the Clerk, supports House legislative functions and keeps the public informed about the House and its legislative activities. LRC ensures that House-related information is accessible to all.[8] Legislative information[edit] LRC supplies House members with the documents under consideration on the House floor. LRC also gathers and verifies information on actions by House committees and the President of the United States regarding legislation. The data are stored in the Legislative Information Management System (LIMS), an in-house system that tracks all legislation from its introduction on the floor to its signing by the President. Through two functions, the United States House of Representatives Library and the House Document Room, LRC serves as the repository and a disseminator of official House legislative documents and publications. The library’s collection comprises more than 200,000 volumes, as well as legislative and legal databases. The House Document Room stores hard copies of legislative documents and publications from the current and two preceding congresses, and makes them available to the public upon request, free of charge. In addition, LRC responds to inquiries from congressional staff and the public regarding legislative information about Congress. Public disclosure[edit] LRC manages and serves as the customer service contact for lobbying disclosure filings, as well as public disclosure forms from all House officers, members, and staff. The center provides filers with forms and guidance on filing procedures, and responds to inquiries about disclosure from filers and others. LRC gathers, organizes, and retains disclosure registrations and reports, and makes them accessible to the public, on-site and virtually. House membership information[edit] LRC compiles and publishes these official lists and informational publications about the House: Official lists of members The list of House standing committees and subcommittees The House telephone directory House office building directories Nominee and election statistics (presidential and congressional). Support for congressional offices[edit] LRC works with the Government Printing Office to support congressional offices with orders for official stationery and envelopes and other print services. Office of Art and Archives & Office of the Historian[edit] The Office of Art and Archives & Office of the Historian collect, preserve, and interpret the artifacts and records of the House. The offices are responsible for the House's historical documentation, the House Collection of Fine Art and Artifacts, and the official records of the House from 1789 to the present. The House Curator and chief of the office, Farar Elliott, curates the House Collection of several thousand objects. The House Archivist, Robin Reeder, processes the records of the House and oversees their eventual safe transfer to the National Archives. Together with the Historian of the House, the Curator and Archivist oversee the institution's website.[9] Office of House Employment Counsel (OHEC)[edit] This office provides advice about employment practices and acts as legal representation for all employing authorities in the House.[7] Office of Legislative Operations[edit] This office coordinates the services of the Bill and Enrolling Clerks, the Journal Clerks, the Tally Clerks, the Daily Digests, and the Floor Action Reporting. The Office of Legislative Operations provides support pertaining to the Clerk's legislative duties. Among the duties of this office are receiving and processing official papers; compiling and publishing the daily minutes of House proceedings; operating the electronic voting system and overseeing the recording of votes; preparing messages to the Senate regarding passed legislation; and reading the bills, resolutions, amendments, motions, and Presidential messages that come before the House. The Office of Legislative Operations also prepares the summaries and schedules of House activities published in the Daily Digest section of the Congressional Record. Bill clerks[edit] A bill clerk receives and processes official papers including introduced bills and resolutions, amendments and additional co-sponsors. Journal clerks[edit] A journal clerk compiles the daily minutes of House proceedings and publishes these in the House Journal at the end of each session. The House Journal is the official record of the proceedings maintained in accordance with Article I, Section 5 of the U.S. Constitution.[10] Tally clerks[edit] A tally clerk operates the electronic voting system, oversees the recording of votes on the House floor, receives reports of committees, and prepares the Calendar of the United States House of Representatives and History of Legislation. Enrolling clerks[edit] An enrolling Clerk prepares all messages to the Senate regarding passed legislation, the official engrossed copy of all House-passed measures, and the official enrollment of all House-originated measures that have cleared both bodies of Congress. Reading clerks[edit] Main article: Reading Clerk of the United States House of Representatives A reading clerk is responsible for the reading of all bills, resolutions, amendments, motions and presidential messages that come before the House; reports formally to the Senate all legislative actions taken by the House. Office of Publication Services (OPS)[edit] This office processes official print orders, such as those for letterhead and envelopes, for the House and produces official House publications, including the Official List of Members, the Capitol Directory Card, and the House Telephone Directory. This office also develops and maintains the Clerk’s official web site and the Kids in the House web site. Official reporters[edit] This office transcribes House proceedings verbatim for publication in the Congressional Record and provides stenographic support to committees for all hearings, meetings, and mark-up sessions.[7] See also[edit] Clerk of the House of Commons (United Kingdom) Clerk of the House of Commons (Canada) References[edit] ^ "Office of the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives". Clerk.house.gov. Archived from the original on February 21, 2011. Retrieved May 7, 2018. ^ "Pelosi Names Cheryl Johnson to Be House Clerk". Rollcall.com. December 28, 2018. Retrieved March 18, 2020. ^ "United States Constitution". National Archives and Records Administration. Archived from the original on August 20, 2014. Retrieved August 21, 2014. ^ Journal of the House of Representatives of the United States Volume 1. A Century of Lawmaking for a New Nation: U.S. Congressional Documents and Debates, 1774 - 1875. 1789. p. 6. Archived from the original on February 10, 2012. ^ "History of the Office". Office of the Clerk. United States House of Representatives. Archived from the original on August 22, 2014. Retrieved August 21, 2014. ^ "Clerks of the House | US House of Representatives: History, Art & Archives". History.house.gov. Retrieved January 30, 2020. ^ a b c [1][dead link] ^ "The Legislative Resource Center (LRC)". Archived from the original on February 26, 2015. Retrieved February 24, 2015. ^ "Homepage". History.house.gov. Retrieved January 1, 2014. ^ Hudiburg, Jane A. (May 31, 2018). The House Journal: Origin, Purpose, and Approval (PDF). Washington, DC: Congressional Research Service. Retrieved June 14, 2018. External links[edit] Official website The Hopper v t e United States Congress House of Representatives Senate (115th←116th→117th) Lists of United States Congress Members and leaders Membership Members By length of service By shortness of service Freshmen Youngest members Non-voting members Senate Members Seniority Dean Former Living Longest living Expelled or censured Classes Born outside the U.S. Resigned Appointed Switched parties House Members Seniority Dean Former Living Oldest living Expelled, censured, and reprimanded Served a single term Switched parties Leaders Senate President List President pro tempore List Leaders Democratic Caucus Chair Secretary Policy Committee Chair Republican Conference Chair Vice-Chair Policy Committee Chair House Speaker List Leaders Bipartisan Legal Advisory Group Democratic Caucus Republican Conference Districts List Apportionment Gerrymandering Groups Congressional caucus African Americans in the House Congressional Black Caucus African Americans in the Senate Arab and Middle Eastern members Asian Pacific American members Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus Hispanic and Latino members Hispanic Caucus Hispanic Conference Jewish members LGBT members LGBT Equality Caucus Native American members Women Senate House Issues Caucus Related By length of service historically Current members by wealth From multiple states Died in office Killed or wounded in office Powers, privileges, procedure, committees, history, and media Powers Article I Copyright Commerce (Dormant) Contempt of Congress Declaration of war Impeachment Naturalization "Necessary and Proper" Power of enforcement Taxing/spending Privileges Salaries Franking Immunity Procedure Act of Congress List Appropriation bill Bill Blue slip Budget resolution Censure Closed sessions House Senate Cloture Concurrent resolution Continuing resolution Dear Colleague letter Discharge petition Enrolled bill Expulsion Joint resolution Joint session List Lame-duck session Majority of the majority (Hastert Rule) Multiple referral House Procedures Quorum call Reconciliation Rider Saxbe fix Sponsorship Suspension of the rules Unanimous consent Veto Line-item veto Pocket veto Senate-specific Advice and consent Classes Executive communication Executive session Filibuster Jefferson's Manual Senate Journal Morning business Nuclear option Presiding Officer Recess appointment Reconciliation Riddick's Senate Procedure Senate hold Senatorial courtesy Seniority Standing Rules Tie-breaking votes Traditions Treaty Clause Committees Chairman and ranking member Of the Whole Conference Discharge petition Hearings Markup Oversight List (Joint) List (House) List (Senate) Select and special Standing Subcommittees Items Gavels Mace of the House Seal of the Senate History House history Memoirs Speaker elections Senate history Election disputes Memoirs Continental Congress Federal Hall (1789-1790) Congress Hall (1790-1800) Old Brick Capitol (1815-1819) Biographical Directory Divided government Party divisions Media C-SPAN Congressional Quarterly The Hill Politico Roll Call Capitol Complex (Capitol Hill) Legislative offices Congressional staff Gov. Accountability Office (GAO) Comptroller General Architect of the Capitol Cap. Police Board Cap. Guide Service Cap. Guide Board Congr. Budget Office (CBO) Compliance Library of Congress Gov. Publishing Office (GPO) Technology Assessment Offices Senate Curator Historical Library House Congr. Ethics Emergency Planning, Preparedness, and Operations Interparliamentary Affairs Law Revision Counsel Library Employees Senate Secretary Chaplain Curator Historian Librarian Pages Parliamentarian Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper House Chaplain Chief Administrative Officer Clerk Doorkeeper Floor Operations Floor Services Chief Historian Pages Board Parliamentarian Postmaster Reading Clerk Sergeant at Arms Library of Congress Congressional Research Service Reports Copyright Office Register of Copyrights Law Library Poet Laureate THOMAS Adams Building Jefferson Building Madison Building Gov. Publishing Office Public Printer Congressional Pictorial Directory Congressional Record Official Congressional Directory U.S. Gov. Manual Serial Set Statutes at Large United States Code Capitol Building Brumidi Corridors Congressional Prayer Room Crypt Dome Statue of Freedom Rotunda Hall of Columns Statuary Hall Visitor Center The Apotheosis of Washington Statue of Freedom Declaration of Independence painting Scene at the Signing of the Constitution of the United States Apotheosis of Democracy First Reading of the Emancipation Proclamation of President Lincoln Surrender of General Burgoyne Surrender of Lord Cornwallis Revolutionary War Door Columbus Doors Washington at Princeton Westward the Course of Empire Takes Its Way VP's Room VP Bust Collection Office buildings Senate Dirksen Hart Mountains and Clouds Russell House Building Commission Cannon Ford Longworth O'Neill Rayburn Other facilities Botanic Garden Health and Fitness Facility House Recording Studio Senate chamber Old Senate Chamber Old Supreme Court Chamber Power Plant Webster Page Residence Subway Related Capitol Hill Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Clerk_of_the_United_States_House_of_Representatives&oldid=952680764" Categories: Legislative clerks Clerks of the United States House of Representatives Hidden categories: All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from March 2020 Use mdy dates from December 2018 Articles lacking in-text citations from July 2010 All articles lacking in-text citations Official website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Add links This page was last edited on 23 April 2020, at 14:36 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view