https://web.archive.org/web/20130223044337/http://www.miamiherald.com/2012/08/18/2958158/debbie-wasserman-schultz-claim.html
Debbie Wasserman Schultz’ claim about release of tax returns of major candidates is false, says PolitiFact Florida - Political Currents - MiamiHerald.com
success fail Jan FEB May 23 2012 2013 2015 8 captures 23 Feb 2013 - 26 Feb 2017 About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Mount Dora High School Mount Dora High School Archive-It Partner Since: Oct, 2010 Organization Type: K-12 Program Schools Organization URL:http://www.lake.k12.fl.us/ Collection: Politics 2012 Information about the 2012 Presidental election, Local elections, and our world. TIMESTAMPS Debbie Wasserman Schultz’ claim about release of tax returns of major candidates is false, says PolitiFact Florida - Political Currents - MiamiHerald.com Customer Service Digital Newspaper Place an Ad Miami.com MomsMiami el Nuevo Herald Indulge Public Notices Political Currents Weather | Traffic Home News Sports Entertainment Business Living Opinion Jobs Cars Real Estate Shop Classifieds Miami-Dade| Broward| Keys| Florida| Nation| World| Americas| Cuba| Haiti| Politics| Schools| Obituaries| WLRN The Miami Herald > News > Political Currents Posted on Saturday, 08.18.12 Posted on Sunday, 08.19.12 email print comment reprints tool name close [x] tool goes here PolitiFact Florida Debbie Wasserman Schultz’ claim about release of tax returns of major candidates is false, says PolitiFact Florida By Amy Sherman PolitiFact Florida checked out Debbie Wasserman Schultz’s claim that major presidential candidates in modern times have released 12 years of tax returns. It was false. PolitiFact Florida The statement: “Mitt Romney is the first major party candidate for president of the United States in modern times not to release at least 12 years of tax returns,” said Debbie Wasserman Schultz on Sunday, Aug. 12 in an interview on Fox News. The ruling: There are several examples of major party candidates for president in modern times who released fewer than 12 tax returns. And those examples have been highlighted in recent news articles. Her claim is not correct. We rate this claim: False. PolitiFact is a partnership between The Tampa Bay Times and The Miami Herald to check out truth in politics. By Amy Sherman PolitiFact Florida Democratic National Committee chair Debbie Wasserman Schultz went on Fox News recently to criticize Mitt Romney’s vice presidential pick, U.S. Rep. Paul Ryan, R-Wis. At one point, she turned the conversation to Romney’s tax returns. Here’s some of the back and forth between the South Florida congresswoman and Fox News Sunday guest host John Roberts: Wasserman Schultz: “Barack Obama and Joe Biden have released 12 years of tax returns. Mitt Romney has released one and a partial view of a second one. His own father…” Roberts: “John McCain released two.” Wasserman Schultz:: “His own father — no, John McCain released more than — released about 12 years of tax returns.” Roberts: “John Kerry didn’t release his wife’s tax returns. I mean, you can make a lot of arguments what is appropriate in terms of…” Wasserman Schultz: “Spouses are not running for president. … Mitt Romney is the first major party candidate for president of the United States in modern times not to release at least 12 years of tax returns. It’s unacceptable.” The subject of Romney’s taxes has generated multiple claims we’ve evaluated on our Truth-O-Meter. Here, we will examine Wasserman Schultz’s claim — “Romney is the first major party candidate for president of the United States in modern times not to release at least 12 years of tax returns.” PolitiFact recently examined a claim by former President Bill Clinton that it’s typical for presidential candidates to release 10 or 11 years of tax returns. We rated that claim Half True, and we will draw from that fact-check. There have been several major presidential candidates to release fewer than 12 tax returns: •  In 2000, George W. Bush provided nine; Al Gore eight.  In the 2008 primary, then Sen. Barack Obama, D-Ill., delivered seven, a move that was matched by Hillary Clinton about a month later. • In 1988, Massachusetts Gov. Michael Dukakis released six years of returns. •  In 2008, McCain released two years of returns, as Roberts said. •  In 1980, Ronald Reagan offered up just one return. There is a difference for incumbents and challengers. Ever since 1976, when Jimmy Carter became president, sitting presidents and vice presidents have released their taxes each year that they are in office. By the time reelection rolls around, they have put at least four tax returns into the public record. Challengers generally match or exceed that. Our colleagues at Factcheck.org looked at this in July and found that since 1980, only two general election candidates have revealed no more than two years of tax returns. One was Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., in 2008 and the other is Romney, who released his 2010 tax return and an estimate of 2011. When we contacted the DNC about this fact-check, they sent us a statement saying that Romney should release more of his tax returns. What they didn’t provide was evidence to support Wasserman Schultz’s claim. Our ruling Wasserman Schultz said: “Mitt Romney is the first major party candidate for president of the United States in modern times not to release at least 12 years of tax returns.” There are several examples of major party candidates for president in modern times who released fewer than 12 tax returns. And those examples have been highlighted in recent news articles. Wasserman Schultz’s claim is not correct, and we rate the statement False. Read more Political Currents stories from the Miami Herald HEALTH CARE Gov. Rick Scott visits Miami drug-testing lab Days after surprising political watchers by accepting a federal expansion of Medicaid, Gov. Rick Scott came to a Miami drug-testing lab that attracts trial participants with the promise of free advanced care. Miami International Airport Former MIA hotel supervisor admits to overbilling county A former maintenance supervisor at the hotel at Miami International Airport turned himself into law enforcement Thursday, admitting he overbilled the county and promising to help prosecutors down the road, the county’s inspector general said. STAND YOUR GROUND LAW Florida task force says no major changes needed to Stand Your Ground law A 19-member task force commissioned by Gov. Rick Scott to review Florida’s Stand Your Ground law has put out its final report, largely voicing its support for the law. 1361584097 Get the Miami Herald's Politics News VIA EMAIL Join the Discussion The Miami Herald is pleased to provide this opportunity to share information, experiences and observations about what's in the news. Some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere on the site or in the newspaper. We encourage lively, open debate on the issues of the day, and ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point. Thank you for taking the time to offer your thoughts. The Miami Herald uses Facebook's commenting system. You need to log in with a Facebook account in order to comment. If you have questions about commenting with your Facebook account, click here. Have a news tip? You can send it anonymously. Click here to send us your tip - or - consider joining the Public Insight Network and become a source for The Miami Herald and el Nuevo Herald. This affects comments on all stories. Copyright 2013 . All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. Miami Herald Web Search powered byYAHOO!SEARCH Search: Horoscopes | Comics & Games | Data Sleuth Get the Deal! Value: Discount: You Save: More Political Currents Political Currents Gov. Rick Scott visits Miami drug-testing lab Former MIA hotel supervisor admits to overbilling county Florida task force says no major changes needed to Stand Your Ground law In David Rivera investigation, suspected ringer charged in federal court in $81,486 scheme Suspect in David Rivera campaign-finance scandal charged Friday with federal crimes St. Pete lawmaker to be next House Democratic leader More Videos VIDEO FROM OUR PARTNERS NDN VIDEO On Facebook Quick Job Search Enter Keyword(s) Enter City Select a State – All United States – Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Select a Category – All Job Categories – Accounting Admin & Clerical Automotive Banking Biotech Broadcast - Journalism Business Development Construction Consultant Customer Service Design Distribution - Shipping Education Engineering Entry Level Executive Facilities Finance General Business General Labor Government Health Care Hotel - Hospitality Human Resources Information Technology Insurance Inventory Legal Legal Admin Management Manufacturing Marketing Nurse Other Pharmaceutical Professional Services Purchasing - Procurement QA - Quality Control Research Restaurant - Food Service Retail - Grocery Sales Science Skilled Labor - Trades Strategy - Planning Supply Chain Telecommunications Training Transportation Warehouse Advanced Job Search Search by Category News Sports Entertainment Business Living Opinion Classifieds Services Site Map RSS| My Yahoo| Newsletters| Mobile| Alerts| Twitter Terms of Service| Privacy Policy| About our ads| Copyright| About The Miami Herald| About the McClatchy Company| Corrections| Contact Us| Advertise| Work for Us Partners: El Nuevo Herald| Newspaper in Education| WLRN | Miami Herald News| CBS4 WFOR-TV| More Copyright 2013 Miami Herald Media Co. All rights reserved Report comment as: (required) X Obscenity/vulgarity Hate speech Personal attack Advertising/Spam Copyright/Plagiarism Other Remarks: (optional)