https://www.nytimes.com/politics/first-draft/2016/05/11/donald-trump-breaks-with-recent-history-by-not-releasing-tax-returns/?_r=0
Donald Trump Breaks With Recent History by Not Releasing Tax Returns - First Draft. Political News, Now. - The New York Times
Sections Home Search Skip to content The New York Times First Draft | Donald Trump Breaks With Recent History by Not Releasing Tax Returns Search Subscribe Now Log In 0 Settings Close search Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Supported by May.11, 2016 May. 13, 2016 May. 12, 2016 May. 10, 2016 May. 9, 2016 May. 6, 2016 May. 5, 2016 May. 4, 2016 May. 3, 2016 May. 2, 2016 Apr. 29, 2016 Politics Newsletter: Sign Up Follow Us Political News, Now. 2:00 pm ET 2:00 pm ET By Alan Rappeport Donald Trump Breaks With Recent History by Not Releasing Tax Returns 2:00 pm ET 2:00 pm ET By Alan Rappeport Photo Donald J. Trump spoke at the Center for the Performing Arts in Carmel, Ind., on last week.Credit Eric Thayer for The New York Times Updated, 5:46 p.m. | Republicans and Democrats who have been awaiting the promised release of Donald J. Trump’s tax returns better not hold their breath. The presumptive Republican presidential nominee said in an interview with The Associated Press, published on Wednesday, that despite indicating earlier that he would disclose his filings, he does not plan on doing so before the November general election. “There’s nothing to learn from them,” Mr. Trump told The A.P., explaining that he did not think voters were particularly interested in the contents of his returns. Mr. Trump later pushed back, explaining that he still intended to release his tax returns once the federal audit was completed. The release of tax returns is not legally required of presidential candidates, but there is a long tradition of major party nominees putting their returns forward for the public to peruse. Joseph J. Thorndike, an adjunct college professor who tracks presidential tax returns as the director of the Tax History Project, said Mr. Trump would be the first major candidate since 1976 to not make any of his full returns public. President Gerald R. Ford released a tax summary that year. During the heat of his primary battle, Mr. Trump said he would release his tax information and blamed the delay on the complexity of his finances. He later said that he could not do it immediately because he is being audited by the Internal Revenue Service, and that his lawyers advised him against it. Mr. Trump has also explained that he cannot release returns from previous years because the government audits him almost every year. Although Mr. Trump has cited the audit as a reason for withholding his returns, Dr. Thorndike noted that President Richard M. Nixon released his under audit, starting the tradition of candidates making theirs public. “I think 40 years of tradition carries real moral and ethical weight,” Dr. Thorndike said. “It is quite striking that a major candidate would decide not to release their tax information — especially someone with an admittedly complex tax situation.” Among the most prominent people to call on Mr. Trump to release his returns this year has been Mitt Romney, the 2012 Republican nominee who did not want to release his tax returns but finally relented under pressure. One of the people who was encouraging him to do so that year was Mr. Trump, who said that Mr. Romney should be proud of his wealth and not hold back his financial information. “Mitt has to get those tax returns out,” Mr. Trump said in a Fox News interview at the time. “I’m a little surprised they weren’t better prepared for that.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. Tue. May. 10 9 Posts Thu. May. 12 5 Posts About First Draft First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation. Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com. Politics Newsletter We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories. Sign Up Follow Us @NYTPolitics Follow us on Facebook RSS Feed © 2017 The New York Times Company Contact Us Work With Us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions