https://www.archives.gov/federal_register/electoral_college/votes/index.html
The Electoral College | National Archives
Top Skip to main content The U.S. National Archives Home Menu Blogs · Bookmark/Share · Contact Us Search Main menu Research Our Records Veterans' Service Records Educator Resources Visit Us America's Founding Documents Electoral College Home > Electoral College The Electoral College New look, new location! Enjoy the lack of the clutter and improved navigation for this site. And don't forget to update your bookmarks with our new, easy-to-remember address! It's a Process, not a Place The Electoral College is how we refer to the process by which the United States elects the President, even though that term does not appear in the U.S. Constitution. In this process, the States (which includes the District of Columbia just for this process) elect the President and Vice President. The Office of the Federal Register (OFR) is a part of the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) and, on behalf of the Archivist of the United States, coordinates certain functions of the Electoral College between the States and Congress. Acting as an intermediary, it reviews the Certificates of Ascertainment and Vote before Congress accepts them as evidence of official State action in preparation for the counting of electoral votes in Congress. In addition to posting them on this website, OFR makes the physical Certificates available for public inspection for one year following the election. After that year, the Certificates become part of the National Archives collection. OFR has no role in appointing electors and has no contact with them. What is the Electoral College? Why do we have the Electoral College? What does the law say about the Electoral College? How are my electors appointed? When are my electors appointed? How many electors does my state have? When and where do my electors meet? 2020 Presidential Election and Electoral College Why should I vote? How do I register to vote? Who are my electors? How did my electors vote? OFR posts the Certificates of Ascertainment and the Certificates of Vote after receiving them. OFR posts the Electoral College results after Congress counts the electoral votes on January 6. Electoral College FAQs US Voting and Election Resources Historical Facts and Results For State Officials Snippet Search the U.S. Electoral College Accordion Key Dates and Events November 3, 2020—Election Day The voters in each State choose electors to serve in the Electoral College. December 14, 2020—Meeting of Electors The electors in each State meet to select the President and Vice President of the United States. January 6, 2021—Counting Electoral Votes in Congress Congress meets in joint session to count the electoral votes (unless Congress passes a law to change the date). January 20, 2021—Inauguration Day The President-Elect is sworn in as President of the United States. View Electoral College timeline This page was last reviewed on December 23, 2019. Contact us with questions or comments. Electoral College How Can I... Register to Vote Get Presidential Election Information for My State See Who My State’s Electors Are See How My State’s Electors Voted Become an Elector Become President of the United States Learn More About... How We Got the Electoral College Electoral College Timeline How Many Electors My State Has What the Electors Do The Meeting of the Electors Laws About How Electors Vote What Congress Does in the Electoral College The Presidential Election Process Discover... 2020 Electoral College Results Historical Electoral College Facts and Results Contact State Officials Election Information by State National Association of State Election Officials National Association of Secretaries of State National Governors Association Council of State Governments National Conference of State Legislatures Resources Lesson Plans FAQs I am a... Voter Teacher State Official About Us Office of the Federal Register National Archives and Records Administration Contact Us Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Tumblr YouTube Blogs Flickr Contact Us · Accessibility · Privacy Policy · Freedom of Information Act · No FEAR Act · USA.gov The U.S. National Archives and Records Administration 1-86-NARA-NARA or 1-866-272-6272 Top