http://www.gallup.com/
Analytics & Advice About Everything That Matters
Notice: JavaScript is not enabled. Please Enable JavaScript Safely. skip to main content Toggle navigation Gallup What We Do Close menu Our Services Exceptional Workplaces Create an environment where employees and teams excel. Employee Experience Culture Employee Engagement Manager Development Workforce Analytics Performance Management Hiring Analytics Strengths-Based Culture Wellbeing Diversity & Inclusion Advanced Analytics Make accurate decisions to ensure long-term success. World Poll Gallup Panel U.S. Daily Tracking Gallup Analytics Business-to-Business Customer Analytics CliftonStrengths Boost performance by maximizing what your employees do best. CliftonStrengths Assessment How the Assessment Works 34 CliftonStrengths Themes For Individuals For Managers & Teams For Organizations For Education Education Drive high engagement and performance at your institution. K-12 Education Higher Education Research Partners Gallup Alumni Survey CliftonStrengths for Students Talent-Based Hiring Gallup Student Poll Featured Solution Gallup Access Manage your workforce through a dynamic online platform. Featured Book It's the Manager Learn about the biggest factor in your organization's success. More from Gallup News Read about the attitudes and behaviors of the world's 7 billion citizens. Reports Books Courses & Workshops Events View All Services & Solutions Who We Are Locations Careers Store Contact Us Search Respond swiftly and effectively to COVID-19 disruptions. Get our latest data-driven insights and advice on how to lead your organization to the other side of a global pandemic. Learn more. Analytics & Advice About Everything That Matters What We Do We help leaders and organizations solve their most pressing problems. Learn More about our offerings Latest From Gallup COVID-19: Leading Through Disruption Learn how Gallup is helping organizations lead through the COVID-19 disruption. Learn More about COVID-19: Leading Through Disruption Featured Book It's the Manager It's the Manager equips your managers with 52 of Gallup's greatest discoveries from decades of research into the science of management. Learn More about It's the Manager Gallup News The Voice of 7 Billion Citizens News for world leaders on everything that matters. Read the Latest about The Voice of 7 Billion Citizens Data and discoveries that accelerate performance. Our Expertise Gallup has more data and insights on the attitudes and behaviors of employees, customers, students and citizens than any other organization in the world. Our Services We empower you to use data for real transformation. Through analytics and advice, we provide leaders with a road map for understanding and unlocking the full potential of individuals, teams and organizations. Exceptional Workplaces Create a culture where employees and teams excel. Advanced Analytics Make accurate decisions to ensure long-term success. CliftonStrengths Boost performance by maximizing what your employees do best. Gallup Access Manage your workforce through a dynamic online platform. Learn How We Can Help You More from Gallup News Reports Books Courses & Workshops Events Shop Gallup Blog How HR Leaders Can Win a Seat at the Table Report State of the American Workplace Understand everything that matters most to the modern workforce. Employee Engagement Go beyond surveys and create a culture of employee engagement. Learn More about Employee Engagement Event 2020 Gallup at Work Virtual Summit Gain education, inspiration and connections you need to transform your workplace. Learn More about the 2020 Gallup at Work Virtual Summit Courses Grow and Develop in Your Role Attend an upcoming course and learn how to enhance personal and team performance. Learn More Join Our Team Change the world a little to a lot every day. Do what you do best. At Gallup, we use your natural talent and passions to match you with a career that allows you to thrive. Learn More About a Career at Gallup Gallup About Us Careers Locations News Store Media Inquiries Gallup Speakers Customer Support Contact us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn YouTube Subscribe to Our Latest Insights Sign Up Copyright © 2020 Gallup, Inc. All rights reserved. Copyright © 2016 Gallup, Inc. All rights reserved. Gallup, Inc. maintains several registered and unregistered trademarks that include but may not be limited to: A8, Accountability Index, Business Impact Analysis, BE10, CE11, CE11 Accelerator, Clifton StrengthsExplorer, Clifton StrengthsFinder, Customer Engagement Index, Customer Engagement Management, Dr. Gallup Portrait, Employee Engagement Index, Enetrix, Engagement Creation Index, Follow This Path, Gallup, Gallup Brain, Gallup Business Journal, GBJ, Gallup Consulting, Gallup-Healthways Well-Being Index, Gallup Management Journal, GMJ, Gallup Panel, Gallup Press, Gallup Tuesday Briefing, Gallup University, Gallup World News, HumanSigma, HumanSigma Accelerator, ICE11, I10, L3, ME25, NurseInsight, NurseStrengths, Patient Quality System, Performance Optimization, Power of 2, PrincipalInsight, Q12, Q12 Accelerator, Q12 Advantage, Selection Research, Inc., SE25, SF34, SRI, Soul of the City, Strengths Spotlight, Strengths-Based Selling, StatShot, StrengthsCoach, StrengthsExplorer, StrengthsFinder, StrengthsInsight, StrengthsQuest, SupportInsight, TX(R+E+R)=P3, TeacherInsight, The Gallup Path, The Gallup Poll, The Gallup School, VantagePoint, Varsity Management, Wellbeing Finder, Achiever, Activator, Adaptability, Analytical, Arranger, Belief, Command, Communication, Competition, Connectedness, Consistency, Context, Deliberative, Developer, Discipline, Empathy, Fairness, Focus, Futuristic, Harmony, Ideation, Includer, Individualization, Input, Intellection , Learner, Maximizer, Positivity, Relator, Responsibility, Restorative, Self-Assurance, Significance, Strategic, and Woo. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. These materials are provided for noncommercial, personal use only. Reproduction prohibited without the express permission of Gallup, Inc. Privacy Statement Legal