https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Seal_of_the_United_States_Congress.svg
File:Seal of the United States Congress.svg - Wikipedia
File:Seal of the United States Congress.svg From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search File File history File usage Global file usage Metadata Size of this PNG preview of this SVG file: 601 × 599 pixels. Other resolutions: 241 × 240 pixels | 481 × 480 pixels | 602 × 600 pixels | 770 × 768 pixels | 1,027 × 1,024 pixels | 1,055 × 1,052 pixels. Original file ‎(SVG file, nominally 1,055 × 1,052 pixels, file size: 232 KB) This is a file from the Wikimedia Commons. Information from its description page there is shown below. Commons is a freely licensed media file repository. You can help. Summary DescriptionSeal of the United States Congress.svg English: Unofficial seal of the United States Congress Español: Escudo extraficial del Congreso de los Estados Unidos Français : Sceau officieux du Congrès des États-Unis Latina: Sigillum Congressus Civitatum Foederatarum Diné bizaad: Wááshindoondi bee hazʼáanii ádeiłʼíní biseal Македонски: Неофицијален печат на Конгресот на Соединетите Американски Држави Русский: Неофициальная печать Конгресса США Date 16 January 2008 Source Vectorized from SVG elements from 50px Author Ipankonin Permission (Reusing this file) Public domainPublic domainfalsefalse This United States Congress image is in the public domain. This may be because it was taken by an employee of the Congress as part of that person’s official duties, or because it has been released into the public domain and posted on the official websites of a member of Congress. As a work of the U.S. federal government, the image is in the public domain. English | español | македонски | русский | українська | 中文 | 中文（简体）‎ | +/− This image shows a flag, a coat of arms, a seal or some other official insignia. The use of such symbols is restricted in many countries. These restrictions are independent of the copyright status. Captions English Symbol for the United States Congress Arabic شعار الكونجرس الأمريكي Items portrayed in this file depicts Bald Eagle File history Click on a date/time to view the file as it appeared at that time. Date/Time Thumbnail Dimensions User Comment current 20:45, 13 March 2017 1,055 × 1,052 (232 KB) Corkythehornetfan coding (a little bit) 22:31, 25 August 2011 1,044 × 1,043 (452 KB) Fry1989 according to sources, the background is white, other minor fixes 06:52, 17 January 2008 1,050 × 1,050 (503 KB) Ipankonin colors 06:50, 17 January 2008 1,050 × 1,050 (503 KB) Ipankonin colors 06:02, 17 January 2008 1,050 × 1,050 (497 KB) Ipankonin dark bands on the border 05:57, 17 January 2008 1,050 × 1,050 (497 KB) Ipankonin ==Summary== {{Information |Description={{en|Seal of the United States Congress}} |Source=Vectorized from 50px SVG elements from 50px |Date=1/16/2008 |Author=[[ File usage More than 100 pages use this file. The following list shows the first 100 pages that use this file only. A full list is available. Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States Cabinet of the United States Constitution of the United States Eisenhower Doctrine Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1973 Federal government of the United States Foreign policy of the United States Green Party of the United States Libertarian Party (United States) List of federal agencies in the United States List of political parties in the United States National Archives and Records Administration North Korea–United States relations Party leaders of the United States Senate Political parties in the United States Politics of the United States President of the United States President pro tempore of the United States Senate Social Security (United States) Speaker of the United States House of Representatives State court (United States) State legislature (United States) Taxation in the United States United States Congress United States Electoral College United States courts of appeals United States district court Vice President of the United States Talk:1st United States Congress Talk:Aaron Burr Talk:Abraham Lincoln Talk:Act of Congress Talk:Al Gore Talk:Andrew Jackson Talk:Anson Burlingame Talk:Article Three of the United States Constitution Talk:Charles Pinckney (governor) Talk:Congressional power of enforcement Talk:Constitution of the United States Talk:Cornelius Cole Talk:Daniel Patrick Moynihan Talk:David Rice Atchison Talk:DeWitt Clinton Talk:Dennis Hastert Talk:Eleventh Amendment to the United States Constitution Talk:Embargo Act of 1807 Talk:First Amendment to the United States Constitution Talk:Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution Talk:Francis Granger Talk:Freedom fries Talk:Gaylord Nelson Talk:George H. W. Bush Talk:Gerrymandering Talk:Gramm–Rudman–Hollings Balanced Budget Act Talk:Hamilton Fish III Talk:Harold Washington Talk:Hillary Clinton Talk:Homer E. Capehart Talk:Horace Greeley Talk:House Un-American Activities Committee Talk:James Eastland Talk:James Madison Talk:James Monroe Talk:Jefferson Davis Talk:Joe Lieberman Talk:John Adams Talk:John Ashcroft Talk:John Breckinridge (U.S. Attorney General) Talk:John F. Kennedy Talk:John Marshall Talk:John Quincy Adams Talk:Joseph Wheeler Talk:List of United States federal legislation Talk:List of former United States senators Talk:Lucius Quintus Cincinnatus Lamar Talk:Martin Van Buren Talk:Member of Congress Talk:Nineteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution Talk:Paul Wellstone Talk:Prescott Bush Talk:President pro tempore of the United States Senate Talk:Richard Henry Lee Talk:Richard Nixon Talk:Salmon P. Chase Talk:Sam Houston Talk:Second Amendment to the United States Constitution Talk:Sixteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution Talk:Sixth Amendment to the United States Constitution Talk:Strom Thurmond Talk:Subcommittee on International Organizations of the Committee on International Relations Talk:Tim Wirth Talk:Trent Lott Talk:Twentieth Amendment to the United States Constitution Talk:Twenty-seventh Amendment to the United States Constitution Talk:Twenty-sixth Amendment to the United States Constitution Talk:United States Congress Talk:Vice President of the United States Talk:Walter Mondale Talk:William Jennings Bryan Talk:William R. King Global file usage The following other wikis use this file: Usage on ar.wikipedia.org اقتصاد الولايات المتحدة الكونغرس الأمريكي أزمة الرهن العقاري الدين العام الأمريكي أزمة سقف ديون الولايات المتحدة قالب:صندوق معلومات هيئة تشريعية قالب:صندوق معلومات هيئة تشريعية/شرح الهاوية المالية الأمريكية الضرائب في الولايات المتحدة تعطيل الحكومة الفيدرالية الأمريكية 2013 تعطل الحكومة عن العمل تعطيل الحكومة الفيدرالية الأمريكية 2018 قالب:مواضيع عجز وديون الولايات المتحدة تعطيل الحكومة الفيدرالية الأمريكية 2018-19 Usage on ast.wikipedia.org Congresu de los Estaos Xuníos Artículu I de la Constitución de los Estaos Xuníos Usage on az.wikipedia.org ABŞ Konqresi Amerika Birləşmiş Ştatları prezidentlərinin siyahısı ABŞ-ın qanunvericilik sistemi Şablon:ABŞ siyasəti ABŞ federal hökuməti Usage on bar.wikipedia.org United States Congress Usage on be-tarask.wikipedia.org Кангрэс ЗША Usage on be.wikipedia.org Кангрэс Злучаных Штатаў Амерыкі Usage on bg.wikipedia.org Конгрес на САЩ Федерално правителство на Съединените американски щати Usage on bh.wikipedia.org टेम्पलेट:Cleanup Congress Bio Usage on bn.wikipedia.org টেমপ্লেট:তথ্যছক আইন/চিত্র টেমপ্লেট:তথ্যছক আইন/চিত্র/নথি Usage on br.wikipedia.org Kongres ar Stadoù-Unanet Usage on bs.wikipedia.org Kongres Sjedinjenih Američkih Država Usage on ca.wikipedia.org Congrés dels Estats Units Article u de la Constitució dels Estats Units Usage on cs.wikipedia.org Congressional Space Medal of Honor Zlatá medaile Kongresu Usage on cy.wikipedia.org Cyngres yr Unol Daleithiau Usage on de.wikipedia.org Government Accountability Office Library of Congress Kongress der Vereinigten Staaten Chuck Grassley Richard Shelby Pat Roberts Lisa Murkowski Kongressausschuss 109. Kongress der Vereinigten Staaten Architekt des Kapitols Susan Collins 110. Kongress der Vereinigten Staaten Mike Enzi Jim Inhofe View more global usage of this file. Metadata This file contains additional information, probably added from the digital camera or scanner used to create or digitize it. If the file has been modified from its original state, some details may not fully reflect the modified file. Width 1055 Height 1052.4 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Seal_of_the_United_States_Congress.svg" Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces File Talk Variants Views Read View on Commons More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Upload file Special pages Page information Languages Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view