https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portal:Politics
Portal:Politics - Wikipedia
Portal:Politics From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Portal maintenance status: (June 2018) This portal's subpages have been checked by an editor, and are needed. Please take care when editing, especially if using automated editing software. Learn how to update the maintenance information here. Wikipedia's portal for exploring content related to Politics Portal topics Activities Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology Random portal Main Categories and topics Tasks and projects edit The Politics portal Politics (Greek: Πολιτικά, politiká, 'affairs of the cities') is the set of activities that are associated with the governance of a country, state or area. It involves making decisions that apply to groups of members and achieving and exercising positions of governance—organized control over a human community. The academic study of politics is referred to as political science. In modern nation states, people often form political parties to represent their ideas. Members of a party often agree to take the same position on many issues and agree to support the same changes to law and the same leaders. An election is usually a competition between different parties. Examples of political parties worldwide include: the African National Congress (ANC) in South Africa; the Democratic Party (D) in the United States; the Conservative Party in the United Kingdom; the Christian Democratic Union (CDU) in Germany; and the Indian National Congress in India, which has the highest number of political parties in the world (2,546 political parties).[circular reference] Politics is a multifaceted word. It has a set of fairly specific meanings that are descriptive and nonjudgmental (e.g. "the art or science of government" and "political principles"), but does often colloquially carry a negative connotation. The word has been used negatively for many years: the British national anthem, as published in 1745, calls on God to "confound their politics," while the phrase "play politics," for example, has been in use since at least 1853, when abolitionist Wendell Phillips declared that "we do not play politics; anti-slavery is no half-jest with us." A variety of methods are deployed in politics, which include promoting one's own political views among people, negotiation with other political subjects, making laws, and exercising force, including warfare against adversaries. Politics is exercised on a wide range of social levels, from clans and tribes of traditional societies, through modern local governments, companies and institutions up to sovereign states, to the international level. During the past decade two tendencies made it possible to overlook comparative politics: 1. concern for theoretical explication and methodological rigor; and 2. the emphasis on field studies of the “emerging,” “new,” and “non-Western” nations. A political system is a framework which defines acceptable political methods within a society. The history of political thought can be traced back to early antiquity, with seminal works such as Plato's Republic, Aristotle's Politics, Chanakya's Arthashastra and Chanakya Niti (3rd Century BCE), as well as the works of Confucius. Read more... Show new selections' edit Selected article The Power of Nightmares is a BBC documentary film series, written and produced by Adam Curtis. The series consists of three one-hour films, consisting mostly of a montage of archive footage with Curtis's narration, which were first broadcast in the United Kingdom in late 2004 and have been subsequently aired in multiple countries and shown in several film festivals, including the 2005 Cannes Film Festival. The films compare the rise of the American Neo-Conservative movement and the radical Islamist movement, making comparisons on their origins and noting strong similarities between the two. More controversially, it argues that the threat of radical Islamism as a massive, sinister organised force of destruction, specifically in the form of al-Qaeda, is in fact a myth perpetrated by politicians in many countries—and particularly American Neo-Conservatives—in an attempt to unite and inspire their people following the failure of earlier, more utopian ideologies. The Power of Nightmares has been praised by film critics in both Britain and the United States. Its message and content have also been the subject of various critiques and criticisms from conservatives and progressives. ...Archive/Nominations More... edit Featured picture Credit: Noclip The western (front) side of the United States Capitol. The U.S. Capitol serves as the location for Congress, the legislative branch of the U.S. federal government. It is located in Washington, D.C., on top of Capitol Hill at the east end of the National Mall. The building is marked by its central dome above a rotunda and two wings. It is an exemplar of the Neoclassical architecture style. ...Archive/Nominations More... edit Selected quote Contrary to the rumors you have heard, I was not born in a manger. I was actually born on Krypton and sent here by my father, Jor-El, to save the planet Earth. — Barack Obama, Political fundraising dinner in New York, October 2008 ...Archive/Nominations More... edit News and Current Events Wikinews on Politics and conflicts April 16: Elizabeth Warren endorses Joe Biden in 2020 US presidential election April 15: Bernie Sanders endorses Joe Biden in 2020 United States presidential election April 14: Iranian International Master Dorsa Derakhshani discusses her chess career with Wikinews April 10: Bernie Sanders ends 2020 US presidential bid April 7: US state of Wisconsin holds 2020 election amidst COVID-19 concerns March 20: Arizona, Florida, Illinois hold 2020 US presidential primaries; Ohio postpones March 16: US President Trump declares COVID-19 national emergency March 15: Native American groups sue US state of Montana over ballot law March 15: Bernie Sanders wins 2020 Northern Mariana Islands US Democratic presidential caucus March 11: Joe Biden wins 2020 US Democratic presidential primaries in Michigan, Missouri, and Mississippi edit Selected biography Cosmo Gordon Lang (1864–1945) was an Anglican prelate who served as Archbishop of York and Archbishop of Canterbury. As Archbishop of Canterbury during the abdication crisis of 1936 he took a strong moral stance, and comments he made in a subsequent broadcast were widely condemned as uncharitable towards the departed king. In his early ministry Lang served in slum parishes in Leeds and Portsmouth before his appointment in 1901 as suffragan Bishop of Stepney in London. In 1908 Lang was nominated Archbishop of York, despite his relatively junior status as a suffragan rather than a diocesan bishop. He entered the House of Lords as a Lord Spiritual and caused consternation in traditionalist circles by speaking and voting against the Lords' proposal to reject David Lloyd George's 1909 "People's Budget". This apparent radicalism was not, however, maintained in later years. At the start of World War I, Lang was heavily criticised for a speech in which he spoke sympathetically of the Kaiser. After the war he supported controversial proposals for the revision of the Book of Common Prayer, but after acceding to Canterbury he took no practical steps to resolve this issue. As Archbishop of Canterbury he presided over the 1930 Lambeth Conference, which gave limited church approval to the use of contraception. ...Archive/Nominations More... edit Did you know... ...that in the 1930s, Australia was home to a paramilitary Fascist organization called the New Guard? ...that Matt Taibbi's book Griftopia has been described as a "necessary ... corrective" to the assertion that bubbles are an inevitable part of the market economy? ...that in the book Net.wars, author Wendy M. Grossman attributes Internet conflict in the 1990s to culture shock from an influx of users? ...that former California Assembly Republican Leader and California Republican Party Chair Robert W. Naylor was editor of The Stanford Daily while he was a student at Stanford University? ...that Nunez Community College in Chalmette, Louisiana, is named for the late wife of former Louisiana State Senate President Samuel B. Nunez, Jr.? ...that on the death of Governor George Madison, Kentucky lieutenant governor Gabriel Slaughter was refused the title of "governor" by a hostile state legislature and was referred to as "acting governor" for the duration of his three-year administration? ...Archive/Nominations More... edit In this month April 1, 1979 – Iran's government becomes an Islamic Republic by a 98% vote, overthrowing the Shah officially. April 9, 1948 – the period known as La Violencia begins with the assassination of Colombian Liberal Party leader Jorge Eliécer Gaitán. For the next ten years Liberals, Communists and Conservatives would fight each other in the conflict. April 9, 2003 – Government of Saddam Hussein overthrown by American forces in Iraq. April 19, 2006 – Han Myung-sook becomes South Korea's first female Prime Minister. April 24, 2005 – Presidential elections in Togo return Faure Gnassingbe to power two months after he was installed by the military following the death of his father, Gnassingbé Eyadéma. April 28, 1937 – Saddam Hussein, the President of Iraq is born. April 30, 1945 – Adolf Hitler and his wife of one day, Eva Braun, commit suicide as the Red Army approaches the Führerbunker in Berlin. Karl Dönitz succeeds Hitler as President of Germany; Joseph Goebbels succeeds Hitler as Chancellor of Germany. More anniversaries...' edit Related portals Anarchism Communism Conservatism European Union Feminism Freedom of speech Genocide Law Liberalism Libertarianism Socialism War edit Associated Wikimedia The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject: Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews News Wikiquote Quotations Wikisource Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wiktionary Definitions Wikidata Database What are portals? List of portals Sub-pages of Portal:Politics Purge server cache Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Politics&oldid=948322834" Categories: Politics portals Politics portal Hidden categories: Portals with triaged subpages from June 2018 All portals with triaged subpages All portals Portals with no named maintainer Portals with short description Random portal component with 31–40 available subpages Random portal component with 11–15 available image subpages Random portal component with 11–15 available subpages Random portal component with 26–30 available subpages Past featured portals Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Portal Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item In other projects Wikinews Wikiversity Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Alemannisch العربية বাংলা Български Bosanski Čeština Deutsch Eesti Esperanto Français हिन्दी Bahasa Indonesia Italiano Magyar Македонски Nederlands 日本語 Norsk nynorsk Occitan Олык марий Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча Polski Português Română Runa Simi Русский Sicilianu Slovenčina Soomaaliga کوردی Suomi தமிழ் Татарча/tatarça ไทย Türkçe اردو West-Vlams 粵語 Zazaki 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 31 March 2020, at 11:50 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view