https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main_Page
Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Main Page From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Welcome to Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia that anyone can edit. 6,067,893 articles in English Arts Biography Geography History Mathematics Science Society Technology All portals From today's featured article The Hudson Sesquicentennial half dollar is a fifty-cent piece struck by the United States Bureau of the Mint in 1935 as a commemorative coin. The coin was designed by Chester Beach. Its obverse depicts the Half Moon, flagship of Henry Hudson, after whom the city of Hudson is named. In addition to showing the ship, the coin displays a version of the Hudson city seal, with Neptune riding a whale, a design that has drawn commentary. Although the city of Hudson was a relatively small municipality, legislation to issue a coin in honor of its 150th anniversary went through Congress without opposition and was signed by President Franklin D. Roosevelt, becoming the Act of May 2, 1935. Most of the coins were likely bought by coin dealers, leaving few for collectors, with the result that prices spiked from the $1 cost at the time of issue. This caused collector anger, but did not lower the coin's value, which has continued to increase in the 80-plus years since it was struck. (Full article...) Recently featured: Alf Ramsey Black honeyeater Compulsory figures Archive By email More featured articles Did you know ... The McLain Family Band ... that a young Ruth McLain Smith, member of The McLain Family Band (pictured), had been playing the Appalachian dulcimer for only two weeks when she performed at the White House on national television? ... that the pasquinade, a form of satire usually in verse or prose, is named after Pasquino, a Hellenistic statue in Rome on which anonymous postings were made? ... that Callaghan MacCarty left his life as a Catholic monk in France and converted to Protestantism to become the third Earl of Clancarty? ... that "Storm Area 51" was a comedic Facebook event intended as a raid on Area 51 in search of aliens? ... that England international footballer Colin Grainger was also a professional singer and shared a bill with the Beatles? ... that a number of Confederate soldiers at the Battle of Cane Hill were armed only with shotguns? ... that Charles Villiers Stanford's Violin Sonata No. 1 was first performed in Cambridge, by violinist Ludwig Straus and the composer at the piano? ... that California governor Pete Wilson celebrated his 60th birthday as a DJ on Sacramento radio station KSEG? Archive Start a new article Nominate an article In the news Coronavirus pandemic Disease Virus Testing Timeline (April) By location Impact Deaths Portal Netanyahu and Gantz After seventeen months of stalemate, the Likud and Blue and White parties reach an agreement for Benjamin Netanyahu and Benny Gantz (pictured) to share power in Israel. A mass shooting in Nova Scotia, Canada, leaves twenty-two victims dead. In the South Korean legislative election, the ruling Democratic Party and their allies increase their majority in the National Assembly. Recent deaths: Ramon Jimenez Jr. Marcel Ospel Donald S. Gann Gideon Patt James B. Adams Erin Babcock Other recent events Nominate an article On this day April 29: Independence Day in Israel (2020) Replica of HMS Endeavour 1770 – On his first voyage, British explorer James Cook and the crew of HMS Endeavour (replica pictured) landed at Botany Bay near present-day Sydney, making the first recorded European contact with the eastern coast of Australia. 1903 – A rockslide buried the Canadian mining town of Frank under more than 110 million tonnes (120 million short tons) of rock, killing at least 70 people. 1945 – The Holocaust: The U.S. Army liberated Dachau, the first Nazi concentration camp, and killed German prisoners of war. 1970 – Vietnam War: South Vietnamese forces began the Cambodian campaign, aiming to attack North Vietnamese jungle bases. 2015 – The ringleaders of the Bali Nine were executed in Indonesia for attempting to smuggle 8.3 kg (18 lb) of heroin to Australia in 2005. Louis II of Anjou (d. 1417) Thomas Beecham (b. 1879) Uma Thurman (b. 1970) More anniversaries: April 28 April 29 April 30 Archive By email List of historical anniversaries Today's featured picture The Neo Geo CD is the second home video game console of SNK's Neo Geo family, released in 1994, four years after its cartridge-based equivalent. The unit's 1X CD-ROM drive was slow, with very long loading times, and the system could also play audio CDs. The Neo Geo CD was launched bundled with a control pad, instead of a joystick like the previous AES version. However, the original AES joystick can be used with all three Neo Geo CD models. The picture shows the top-loader model of the Neo Geo CD system, with a plugged-in controller consisting of an analog stick, four colored buttons, and two buttons labelled "select" and "start". The CD-ROM drive and the power button are visible at the top of the console, with two controller ports at the front. Photograph credit: Evan Amos Recently featured: The Voyage of Life: Old Age Caroline Rémy de Guebhard Nototropis falcatus Archive More featured pictures Other areas of Wikipedia Community portal – Bulletin board, projects, resources and activities covering a wide range of Wikipedia areas. Help desk – Ask questions about using Wikipedia. Local embassy – For Wikipedia-related communication in languages other than English. Reference desk – Serving as virtual librarians, Wikipedia volunteers tackle your questions on a wide range of subjects. Site news – Announcements, updates, articles and press releases on Wikipedia and the Wikimedia Foundation. Village pump – For discussions about Wikipedia itself, including areas for technical issues and policies. Wikipedia's sister projects Wikipedia is hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other projects: Commons Free media repository MediaWiki Wiki software development Meta-Wiki Wikimedia project coordination Wikibooks Free textbooks and manuals Wikidata Free knowledge base Wikinews Free-content news Wikiquote Collection of quotations Wikisource Free-content library Wikispecies Directory of species Wikiversity Free learning materials and activities Wikivoyage Free travel guide Wiktionary Dictionary and thesaurus Wikipedia languages This Wikipedia is written in English. Started in 2001 (2001), it currently contains 6,067,893 articles. Many other Wikipedias are available; some of the largest are listed below. More than 1,000,000 articles: العربية Deutsch Español Français Italiano Nederlands 日本語 Polski Português Русский Svenska Українська Tiếng Việt 中文 More than 250,000 articles: Bahasa Indonesia Bahasa Melayu Български Català Čeština Dansk Esperanto Euskara فارسی‎ עברית 한국어 Magyar Norsk Bokmål Română Srpski Srpskohrvatski Suomi Türkçe More than 50,000 articles: Asturianu Bosanski Eesti Ελληνικά English (Simple English) Galego Hrvatski Latviešu Lietuvių മലയാളം Norsk nynorsk Slovenčina Slovenščina ไทย Complete list of Wikipedias Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Main_Page&oldid=951809097" Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Main Page Talk Variants Views Read View source View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons MediaWiki Meta-Wiki Wikispecies Wikibooks Wikidata Wikimania Wikinews Wikiquote Wikisource Wikiversity Wikivoyage Wiktionary Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages العربية Български Bosanski Català Čeština Dansk Deutsch Eesti Ελληνικά Español Esperanto Euskara فارسی Français Galego 한국어 Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Italiano עברית ქართული Latviešu Lietuvių Magyar Bahasa Melayu Nederlands 日本語 Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Polski Português Română Русский Simple English Slovenčina Slovenščina Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Suomi Svenska ไทย Türkçe Українська Tiếng Việt 中文 This page was last edited on 19 April 2020, at 00:45 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view