https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Contents
Help:Contents - Wikipedia
Help:Contents From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Main page of the help namespace This page provides help with the most common questions about Wikipedia. You can also search all Wikipedia's help pages using the search box below, or browse the Help menu or the Help directory. Help Wikipedia Read or find an article The Readers' FAQ and our about page contain the most commonly sought information about Wikipedia. For simple searches, there is a search box at the top of every page. Type what you are looking for in the box. Partial matches will appear in a dropdown list. Select any page in the list to go to that page. Or, select the magnifying glass "Go" button, or press ↵ Enter, to go to a full search result. For advanced searches, see Help:Searching. There are other ways to browse and explore Wikipedia articles; many can be found at Wikipedia:Contents. Also see our disclaimer for cautions about Wikipedia's limitations. Edit an article Contributing is easy: see how to edit a page. For a quick summary on participating, see contributing to Wikipedia, and for a friendly tutorial, see our introduction. For a listing of introductions and tutorials by topic, see getting started. The Simplified Manual of Style and Cheatsheet can remind you of basic wiki markup. Be bold in improving articles! When adding facts, please provide references so others may verify them. If you are affiliated with the article subject, please see our conflict of interest guideline. If you're looking for places you can help out, the Task Center is the place to go, or check out what else is happening at the community portal. You can practice editing and experiment in a sandbox. Report a problem with an article If there is a problem with an article about yourself, a family member, a friend or a colleague, please read Biographies of living persons/Help. If you spot a problem with an article, you can fix it directly, by clicking on the "Edit" link at the beginning of that page. See the "edit an article" section of this page for more information. If you don't feel ready to fix the article yourself, please post a message on the article's talk page. This will bring the matter to the attention of others who work on that article. There is a "Talk" link at the beginning of every article page. Alternatively you can contact us. If it's an article about you or your organization, see Contact us – Subjects. Create a new article or upload media Check Your first article to see if your topic is appropriate, then the Article wizard will walk you through creating the article. Once you have created an article, see Writing better articles for guidance on how to improve it and what to include (like reference citations). For contributing images, audio or video files, see the Introduction to uploading images. Then the Upload wizard will guide you through that process. Stuck? Answers to common problems can be found at frequently asked questions. Or check out where to ask questions or make comments. New users having problems editing Wikipedia should ask at the Teahouse. More complex questions can be posed at the Help desk. Volunteers will respond as soon as they're able. Or ask for help on your talk page and a volunteer will visit you there! You can get live help with editing in the help chatroom. For help with technical issues, ask at the Village pump. Factual questions If searching Wikipedia has not answered your question (for example, questions like "Which country has the world's largest fishing fleet?"), try the Reference Desk. Volunteers there will attempt to answer your questions on any topic, or point you towards the information you need. Directories Directory: main list of directories and indexes. Help related Help directory: for informative, instructional and consultation pages. Request directory: for services and assistance that can be requested on Wikipedia. Protocols and conventions Policy directory: official policies for "English Wikipedia" Guideline directory: official guidelines for "English Wikipedia" Manual of Style directory: pages related to the style manual of Wikipedia articles. Community related Departments: for the different divisions of Wikipedia. Editor's index: for everything an editor needs to know to work on Wikipedia. Essay directory: for Wikipedia namespace essays. Dashboard: for current discussions taking place throughout Wikipedia. WikiProjects: for people who want to work together as a team to improve Wikipedia. MediaWiki software Wiki markup: for the syntax used by Wikipedia to format a page. HTML: for HTML5 elements, or tags and their attribute. Templates: for templates used within Wikipedia. Help by topic Help Menu: for searching by subject matter. Navigating Wikipedia: for searching and browsing the encyclopedia. Joining Wikipedia: how to get involved. Editing Wikipedia: has general help for editors. Links and references: has help for creating links, or dealing with references Images and media: how to use images, videos and sound files Keeping track of changes: how to track the evolution of a page, or follow a user. Policies and guidelines: for community standards. Asking questions: volunteers will attempt to answer. The Wikipedia community: how to submit or debate a proposal. Resources and lists: has resources for editors. Account settings: has tips and tools for registered users. Technical information: has tools for advanced users, and troubleshooting. Site map: is the above twelve pages on a single page. Tip of the day The Wikipedia Adventure! The Wikipedia Adventure (TWA) is a seven mission interactive tutorial that introduces new editors to basic Wikiquette, policy, and editing skills while earning sixteen editor badges along the way. TWA is a great way to learn the basics fast, without trial and error and is even a great way for experienced or returning editors to freshen up on their skills. Wikipedia is not a game, but a fun way of learning. TWA only takes about an hour. Prior tip – Tips library – Next tip Read more: About The Wikipedia Adventure Become a Wikipedia tipster – Tips library, by subject To add this auto-updating daily tip to your user page, use {{totd}} Additional searches Search Frequently Asked Questions Search the help desk archives v t e Basic information on Wikipedia Help directory menu Reference desk Help desk About Wikipedia Administration FAQs Purpose Who writes Wikipedia? Organization Censorship Why create an account? In brief General disclaimer What Wikipedia is not Readers' FAQ Parental advice Navigation Searching Viewing media Help Mobile access Other languages Researching with Wikipedia Citing Wikipedia Students help Readers' index Copyright Book creation Contributing to Wikipedia Main introduction Tutorial Tutorials and introductions The answer Dos and don'ts Learning the ropes Common mistakes Newcomer primer Plain and simple Your first article Wizard Young Wikipedians The Adventure Protocols and conventions Five pillars Simplified ruleset Simplified MoS Etiquette Expectations Oversight Principles Ignore all rules The rules are principles Core content policies Policies and guidelines Policies Guidelines Vandalism Appealing blocks Getting assistance Requests for help Request editor assistance Disputes resolution requests IRC live chat Tutorial Village pump Contact us Wikipedia community Community portal Dashboard Noticeboards Departments Maintenance Task Center Essays Meetups WikiProjects Sourcing and referencing Finding sources Combining sources Referencing Citations Citation Style 1 Citation templates Footnotes Page numbers Cite errors Information Editing Toolbar Conflict VisualEditor User guide Category Diffs Email confirmation Infoboxes Linking Link color Manual of Style Simplified Namespaces Page name URLs User contribution pages Using talk pages Archiving Image and media files Images Media files How-to Guide to page deletion Image deletion Logging in Merging pages Page renaming Requests Redirecting Reset passwords Reverting Uploading images Wiki markup Wiki markup Cheatsheet Barcharts Calculations Columns HTML Lists Magic words For beginners Music symbols Sections Sounds Special Characters Tables Templates Documentation Index Tools Transclusion Visual file markup Tutorial Directories Abbreviations Contents Edit summaries Essays Glossary Index The Missing Manual Shortcuts Tips Tip of the day Wikis Teahouse (interactive help for new editors) Ask for help on your talk page (a volunteer will visit you there) Shortcuts to this page: WP:HELP WP:H Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Help:Contents&oldid=949012248" Categories: Help Wikipedia help contents Hidden categories: Help pages with short description Wikipedia semi-protected project pages Wikipedia indefinitely move-protected pages Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Help page Talk Variants Views Read View source View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item In other projects Wikimedia Commons MediaWiki Meta-Wiki Wikispecies Wikibooks Wikidata Wikinews Wikiquote Wikisource Wikiversity Wikivoyage Wiktionary Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Acèh Afrikaans Akan Alemannisch አማርኛ Ænglisc العربية Aragonés ܐܪܡܝܐ Asturianu Avañe'ẽ Aymar aru Azərbaycanca تۆرکجه বাংলা Banjar Bân-lâm-gú Basa Banyumasan Башҡортса Беларуская Беларуская (тарашкевіца)‎ भोजपुरी Bislama Boarisch བོད་ཡིག Bosanski Brezhoneg Català Чӑвашла Cebuano Čeština Chavacano de Zamboanga Cymraeg Dansk Davvisámegiella Deutsch Diné bizaad Dolnoserbski डोटेली ཇོང་ཁ Eesti Ελληνικά Español Esperanto Euskara فارسی Føroyskt Français Frysk Gaeilge Gàidhlig Galego ГӀалгӀай ગુજરાતી 客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî 한국어 Hausa Հայերեն हिन्दी Hornjoserbsce Hrvatski Bahasa Hulontalo Ido Ilokano Bahasa Indonesia Interlingua Interlingue Ирон Íslenska Italiano עברית Jawa Kalaallisut ಕನ್ನಡ ქართული Қазақша Kernowek Kirundi Kiswahili Kurdî Кыргызча Ladino ລາວ Latina Latviešu Lëtzebuergesch Lietuvių Limburgs Lingála Lumbaart Magyar Македонски മലയാളം Malti Māori मराठी مصرى Bahasa Melayu Minangkabau Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄ Mirandés Монгол မြန်မာဘာသာ Nederlands Nedersaksies नेपाली नेपाल भाषा 日本語 Napulitano Нохчийн Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Occitan ଓଡ଼ିଆ Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча ਪੰਜਾਬੀ پښتو ភាសាខ្មែរ Piemontèis Plattdüütsch Polski Português Qırımtatarca Ripoarisch Română Rumantsch Runa Simi Русский Саха тыла संस्कृतम् Sardu Scots Seeltersk Shqip Sicilianu සිංහල Simple English سنڌي Slovenčina Slovenščina Словѣньскъ / ⰔⰎⰑⰂⰡⰐⰠⰔⰍⰟ Ślůnski Soomaaliga کوردی Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Sunda Suomi Svenska Tagalog தமிழ் Татарча/tatarça ၽႃႇသႃႇတႆး తెలుగు ไทย Тоҷикӣ Lea faka-Tonga Tsetsêhestâhese Türkçe Türkmençe Twi Тыва дыл ᨅᨔ ᨕᨘᨁᨗ Українська اردو ئۇيغۇرچە / Uyghurche Vèneto Vepsän kel’ Tiếng Việt Volapük Võro Walon West-Vlams 吴语 ייִדיש 粵語 Zazaki Žemaitėška 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 4 April 2020, at 05:56 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view