https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:About
Wikipedia:About - Wikipedia
Wikipedia:About From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search General introduction for visitors to a Wikimedia project For a guide to help pages in Wikipedia, see Help:About help pages. For the Wikipedia hatnote template, see Template:About. "Wikipedia:Wikipedia" redirects here. For other uses, see Wikipedia:Wikipedia (disambiguation). This is a general introduction for visitors to Wikipedia. The project also has an encyclopedia article about itself, Wikipedia, and an introduction and tutorial for aspiring contributors. Shortcuts WP:ABOUT WP:WIKIPEDIA About Wikipedia Administration FAQ Contributing Tips Tasks Tutorial Help menu Directories Wikitext cheatsheet Asking questions Help desk Reference desk Teahouse English Wikipedia right now MediaWiki version: 1.35.0-wmf.28 (dd71c0d) Content articles: 6,067,574 Total pages: 50,190,810 Uploaded files: 881,459 Edits: 949,074,318 Registered users: 38,899,877, including 142,765 active this month and 1,144 administrators Information as of 00:35, 29 April 2020 (UTC). Update v t e Wikipedia (/ˌwɪkɪˈpiːdiə/ (listen), /ˌwɪkiˈpiːdiə/ (listen) WIK-ih-PEE-dee-ə) is a multilingual, web-based, free-content encyclopedia project supported by the Wikimedia Foundation and based on a model of openly editable content. The name "Wikipedia" is a portmanteau of the words wiki (a technology for creating collaborative websites, from the Hawaiian word wiki, meaning "quick") and encyclopedia. Wikipedia's articles provide links designed to guide the user to related pages with additional information. Wikipedia is written collaboratively by largely anonymous volunteers who write without pay. Anyone with internet access can write and make changes to Wikipedia articles, except in limited cases where editing is restricted to prevent disruption or vandalism. Since its creation on January 15, 2001, Wikipedia has grown into the world's largest reference website, attracting 1.5 billion unique visitors monthly as of March 2020[update]. It currently has more than 53 million articles in more than 300 languages, including 6,067,574 articles in English with 142,765 active contributors in the past month. The fundamental principles by which Wikipedia operates are the five pillars. The Wikipedia community has developed many policies and guidelines to improve the encyclopedia; however, it is not a formal requirement to be familiar with them before contributing. Anyone is allowed to add or edit words, references, images and other media here. What is contributed is more important than the expertise or qualifications of the contributor. To remain, the content must be free of copyright restrictions and contentious material about living people. It must fit within Wikipedia's policies, including being verifiable against a published reliable source. Editors' opinions and beliefs and unreviewed research will not remain. Contributions cannot damage Wikipedia because the software allows easy reversal of mistakes and many experienced editors are watching to ensure that edits are improvements. Begin by simply clicking the Edit button at the top of any editable page! Wikipedia is a live collaboration differing from paper-based reference sources in important ways. Unlike printed encyclopedias, Wikipedia is continually created and updated, with articles on historic events appearing within minutes, rather than months or years. Because everybody can help improve it, Wikipedia has become more comprehensive than any other encyclopedia. In addition to quantity, its contributors work on improving quality as well. Wikipedia is a work-in-progress, with articles in various stages of completion. As articles develop, they tend to become more comprehensive and balanced. Quality also improves over time as misinformation and other errors are removed or repaired. However, because anyone can click "edit" at any time and add content, any article may contain undetected misinformation, errors, or vandalism. Awareness of this helps the reader to obtain valid information, avoid recently added misinformation (see Wikipedia:Researching with Wikipedia), and fix the article. Contents 1 About Wikipedia 1.1 Wikipedia history 1.2 Wikipedia contributors 1.3 Trademarks and copyrights 1.4 Credits 2 Making the best use of Wikipedia 2.1 Exploring Wikipedia 2.2 Basic navigation in Wikipedia 2.3 Using Wikipedia as a research tool 2.4 Wikipedia vs paper encyclopedias 2.5 Strengths, weaknesses, and article quality 2.6 Disclaimers 3 Contributing to Wikipedia 3.1 Editing Wikipedia pages 3.2 Wikipedia content criteria 3.3 Editorial administration, oversight, and management 3.4 Handling disputes and abuse 3.5 Editorial quality review 4 Technical attributes 5 Feedback and questions 5.1 Frequently asked questions (FAQ) 5.2 Static help 5.3 Giving feedback 5.4 Research help and similar questions 5.5 Community discussion 5.6 Contacting individual Wikipedia editors 6 Other languages 7 Sister projects 8 See also 9 References 10 Further reading 11 External links About Wikipedia For information on the administrative structure of Wikipedia, see Wikipedia:Administration. See also: Wikipedia:Purpose Further information: Wikipedia:Essay directory § About Wikipedia Wikipedia history Further information: History of Wikipedia The English edition of Wikipedia has grown to 6,067,574 articles, equivalent to around 2,700 print volumes of the Encyclopædia Britannica. Including all language editions, Wikipedia has 53,074,969 articles, equivalent to around 19,900 print volumes.[1] Wikipedia was founded as an offshoot of Nupedia, a now-abandoned project to produce a free encyclopedia, begun by the online media company Bomis. Nupedia had an elaborate system of peer review and required highly qualified contributors, but the writing of articles was slow. During 2000, Jimmy Wales (founder of Nupedia and co-founder of Bomis), and Larry Sanger, whom Wales had employed to work on the encyclopedia project, discussed ways of supplementing Nupedia with a more open, complementary project. Multiple sources suggested that a wiki might allow members of the public to contribute material, and Nupedia's first wiki went online on January 10, 2001. There was considerable resistance on the part of Nupedia's editors and reviewers to the idea of associating Nupedia with a website in the wiki format, so the new project was given the name "Wikipedia" and launched on its own domain, wikipedia.com, on January 15 (now called "Wikipedia Day" by some users). The bandwidth and server (in San Diego) were donated by Wales. Other current and past Bomis employees who have worked on the project include Tim Shell, one of the cofounders of Bomis and its current CEO, and programmer Jason Richey. In May 2001, a large number of non-English Wikipedias were launched—in Catalan, Chinese, Dutch, Esperanto, French, German, Hebrew, Italian, Japanese, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish, and Swedish. These were soon joined by Arabic and Hungarian. In September,[2] Polish was added, and further commitment to the multilingual provision of Wikipedia was made. At the end of the year, Afrikaans, Norwegian, and Serbo-Croatian versions were announced. The domain was eventually changed to the present wikipedia.org when the not-for-profit Wikimedia Foundation was launched, in 2003, as its new parent organization, with the ".org" top-level domain denoting its non-commercial nature. Today, there are Wikipedias in more than 300 languages. Wikipedia contributors Main pages: Wikipedia:Who writes Wikipedia? and Wikipedia:Wikipedians Further information: Wikipedia:Administration § Editors Play media Wikipedia contributors Anyone with Web access can edit Wikipedia, and this openness encourages inclusion of a tremendous amount of content. About 140,000 editors—from expert scholars to casual readers—regularly edit Wikipedia, and these experienced editors often help to create a consistent style throughout the encyclopedia, following our Manual of Style. Several mechanisms are in place to help Wikipedia members carry out the important work of crafting a high-quality resource while maintaining civility. Editors are able to watch pages and technically skilled persons can write editing programs to keep track of or rectify bad edits. Where there are disagreements on how to display facts, editors often work together to compile an article that fairly represents current expert opinion on the subject. Aspiring authors may wish to read the information on Contributing to Wikipedia before contributing to the project. Although the Wikimedia Foundation owns the site, it is largely uninvolved in writing and daily operations. Trademarks and copyrights Main pages: Wikipedia:Copyrights and wmf:Trademark policy "Wikipedia" is a registered trademark of the not-for-profit Wikimedia Foundation, which has created a family of free-content projects that are built by user contributions. Most of Wikipedia's text and many of its images are dual-licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-Sharealike 3.0 Unported License (CC-BY-SA) and the GNU Free Documentation License (GFDL) (unversioned, with no invariant sections, front-cover texts, or back-cover texts). Some text has been imported only under CC-BY-SA and CC-BY-SA-compatible license and cannot be reused under GFDL; such text is identified either on the page footer, in the page history or on the discussion page of the article that utilizes the text. Every image has a description page that indicates the license under which it is released or, if it is non-free, the rationale under which it is used. Contributions remain the property of their creators, while the CC-BY-SA and GFDL licenses ensure the content is freely distributable and reproducible. (See content disclaimer for more information.) Credits Text on Wikipedia is a collaborative work, and the efforts of individual contributors to a page are recorded in that page's history, which is publicly viewable. Information on the authorship of images and other media, such as sound files, can be found by clicking on the image itself or the nearby information icon to display the file page, which includes the author and source, where appropriate, along with other information. Making the best use of Wikipedia Readers' FAQ and help About Wikipedia Administration FAQs Authority control Categories Censorship Copyright Disambiguation Images and multimedia ISBN Microformats Mobile access Navigation Other languages Page names Portals Protected pages Searching Student help Researching with Wikipedia Citing Wikipedia Contributing to Wikipedia Readers' glossary Readers' index Reader's guide to Wikipedia v t e Further information: Wikipedia:Reader's index to Wikipedia See also: Reader's guide to Wikipedia and the guide to using Wikipedia in research Exploring Wikipedia Main page: Wikipedia:Contents Many visitors come to Wikipedia to acquire knowledge, while others come to share knowledge. At this very instant, dozens of articles are being improved, and new articles are also being created. Changes can be viewed at the Recent changes page and a random page at random articles. 5,752 articles have been designated by the Wikipedia community as featured articles, exemplifying the best articles in the encyclopedia. Another 31,427 articles are designated as good articles. Some information on Wikipedia is organized into lists; the best of these are designated as featured lists. Wikipedia also has portals, which organize content around topic areas. Articles can be found using the search box on the top-right side of the screen. Wikipedia is available in languages other than English. Wikipedia has more than 300 languages, including a Simple English version, and related projects include a dictionary, quotations, books, manuals, and scientific reference sources, and a news service (see sister projects). All these are maintained, updated, and managed by separate communities, and often include information and articles that can be hard to find through other common sources. Basic navigation in Wikipedia Main page: Help:Navigation Wikipedia articles are all linked, or cross-referenced. When highlighted text like this is seen, it means there is a link to some relevant article or Wikipedia page with further in-depth information. Holding the mouse over the link will often show to where the link will lead. There are other links towards the ends of most articles, for other articles of interest, relevant external websites and pages, reference material, and organized categories of knowledge which can be searched and traversed in a loose hierarchy for more information. Some articles may also have links to dictionary definitions, audio-book readings, quotations, the same article in other languages, and further information available on our sister projects. Additional links can be easily made if a relevant link is missing—this is one simple way to contribute. Using Wikipedia as a research tool Main pages: Wikipedia:Researching with Wikipedia and Wikipedia:Citing Wikipedia Play media What's a love dart? Wikipedia can help you find out! (2:13 min) As wiki documents, articles are never considered complete and may be continually edited and improved. Over time, this generally results in an upward trend of quality and a growing consensus over a neutral representation of information. Users should be aware that not all articles are of encyclopedic quality from the start: they may contain false or debatable information. Indeed, many articles start their lives as displaying a single viewpoint; and, after a long process of discussion, debate, and argumentation, they gradually take on a neutral point of view reached through consensus. Others may, for a while, become caught up in a heavily unbalanced viewpoint which can take some time—months or years perhaps—to achieve a better balanced coverage of their subject. In part, this is because editors often contribute content in which they have a particular interest and do not attempt to make each article they edit comprehensive. However, eventually, additional editors expand and contribute to articles and strive to achieve balance and comprehensive coverage. In addition, Wikipedia operates a number of internal resolution processes that can assist when editors disagree on content and approach. Usually, editors eventually reach a consensus on ways to improve the article. External video "Using Wikipedia" with John Green, from Crash Course's Navigating Digital Information series, YouTube video The ideal Wikipedia article is well written, balanced, neutral, and encyclopedic, containing comprehensive, notable, verifiable knowledge. An increasing number of articles reach this standard over time, and many already have. Our best articles are called Featured Articles (and display a small star in the upper right corner of the article), and our second best tier of articles are designated Good Articles. However, this is a process and can take months or years to be achieved through the concerted effort of editors. Some articles contain statements which have not yet been fully cited. Others will later be augmented with new sections. Some information will be considered by later contributors to be insufficiently founded and, therefore, may be removed. While the overall trend is toward improvement, it is important to use Wikipedia carefully if it is intended to be used as a research source, since individual articles will, by their nature, vary in quality and maturity. Guidelines and information pages are available to help users and researchers do this effectively, as is an article that summarizes third-party studies and assessments of the reliability of Wikipedia. Wikipedia vs paper encyclopedias Main page: Wikipedia is not paper (on Wikimedia Meta-Wiki). Wikipedia has advantages over traditional paper encyclopedias. First, it is not limited in space: it can keep growing as fast as people add to it. Second, there are no qualifications required to be able to author its articles. Therefore, it has a very large pool of contributors: the whole world. This, and the first advantage mentioned above, have enabled Wikipedia to become the most comprehensive encyclopedia on Earth. Third, a paper encyclopedia remains static (stays the same) and falls out of date until the next edition. But Wikipedia is dynamic: you don't have to wait for the next edition to come out (there are no editions), as Wikipedia is published on-line as it is written on-line. Articles are made available as is, regardless of what stage of development they are in. You can update Wikipedia at any instant, and people do so continually around the clock, thereby helping each other to keep abreast of the most recent events everywhere and of the latest facts in every subject. Fourth, Wikipedia has a very low "publishing" cost for adding or expanding entries, as it is on-line, with no need to buy paper or ink for distribution. This has allowed it to be made available for free, making it more accessible to everyone. This has enabled Wikipedia to be independently developed and published in many different languages at the same time, by people literate in each language. Of the 290+ different language Wikipedias, 137 of them have 10,000 or more articles. Fifth, Wikipedia has a low environmental impact in some respects, since it never needs to be printed, although computers have their own environmental cost. Sixth, Wikipedia is extra-linear (more than linear). Instead of in-line explanations, Wikipedia incorporates hypertext in the form of wikilinks. Throughout its content is a robust network of links, providing another dimension of knowledge accessibility. The encyclopedia also has correlates to tables of contents and indexes, with each entry in them hyperlinked to an article on the topic specified. Seventh, each Wikipedia article provides an introduction summarizing the more extensive detail of its contents. Eighth, being open to anyone to edit, articles on Wikipedia are subject to additions that might be erroneous or written poorly, which in turn are subject to being corrected or rewritten. It is a community effort, with most people who are involved helping to improve the work, fixing problems they encounter along the way. See more about Wikipedia's strengths and weaknesses, below ... Strengths, weaknesses, and article quality Main pages: Wikipedia:Why Wikipedia is so great and Wikipedia:Why Wikipedia is not so great See also: Reliability of Wikipedia and Wikipedia:Researching with Wikipedia The Wikipedia Monument by Mihran Hakobyan in Slubice, Poland honors the Wikipedia community. Wikipedia's greatest strengths, weaknesses, and differences all arise because it is open to anyone, it has a large contributor base, and its articles are written by consensus, according to editorial guidelines and policies. Wikipedia is open to a large contributor base, drawing a large number of editors from diverse backgrounds. This allows Wikipedia to significantly reduce regional and cultural bias found in many publications, and makes it very difficult for any person or group to censor and impose bias. A large, diverse editor base also provides access and breadth on subject matter that is otherwise inaccessible or poorly documented. A large number of editors contributing at any moment can produce encyclopedic articles and resources covering newsworthy events within hours or days of their occurrence. Like any publication, Wikipedia may reflect the cultural, age, socio-economic, and other biases of its contributors. There is no systematic process to make sure "obviously important" topics are written about, so Wikipedia may suffer unexpected oversights and omissions. While most articles may be altered by anyone, in practice editing will be performed by a certain demographic (younger rather than older, male rather than female, literate, rich enough to afford a computer, et cetera) and may, therefore, show some bias. Some topics may not be covered well, others in great depth. Allowing anyone to edit Wikipedia makes it easily vandalized and susceptible to unverifed information, which requires removal. See Wikipedia:Administrator intervention against vandalism. While blatant vandalism is usually easily spotted and rapidly corrected, Wikipedia is more subject to subtle viewpoint promotion than a typical reference work. However, bias that would be unchallenged in a traditional reference work is likely to be eventually challenged or considered on Wikipedia. While Wikipedia articles generally attain a good standard after editing, it is important to note that fledgling articles and those monitored less well may be susceptible to vandalism and insertion of false information. Wikipedia's radical openness also means any given article may be, at any given moment, in a bad state, such as in the middle of a large edit, or a controversial rewrite. Many contributors do not yet comply fully with key policies, or may add information without citable sources. Wikipedia's open approach tremendously increases the chances that any particular factual error or misleading statement will be relatively promptly corrected. Numerous editors at any given time are monitoring recent changes and edits to articles on their watchlists. Wikipedia is written by open and transparent consensus—an approach that has its pros and cons. Censorship or imposing "official" points of view is extremely difficult to achieve and usually fails after a time. Eventually for most articles, all notable views become fairly described and a neutral point of view reached. In reality, the process of reaching consensus may be long and drawn-out, with articles fluid or changeable for a long time while they find their "neutral approach" that all sides can agree on. Reaching neutrality is occasionally made harder by extreme-viewpoint contributors. Wikipedia operates a full editorial dispute resolution process, one that allows time for discussion and resolution in depth, but one that also permits disagreements to last for months before poor-quality or biased edits are removed. A common conclusion is that Wikipedia is a valuable resource and provides a good reference point on its subjects. That said, articles and subject areas sometimes suffer from significant omissions, and while misinformation and vandalism are usually corrected quickly, this does not always happen. (See for example this incident in which a person inserted a fake biography linking a prominent journalist to the Kennedy assassinations and Soviet Russia as a joke on a co-worker which went undetected for four months, saying afterwards he "didn't know Wikipedia was used as a serious reference tool".) Wikipedia is written largely by amateurs. Those with expert credentials are given no additional weight. Wikipedia is also not subject to any peer review for scientific, medical or engineering articles. One advantage to having amateurs write in Wikipedia is that they have more free time on their hands so they can make rapid changes in response to current events. The wider the general public interest in a topic, the more likely it is to attract contributions from non-specialists. The MediaWiki software that runs Wikipedia retains a history of all edits and changes, thus information added to Wikipedia never "vanishes" irreversibly. Discussion pages are an important resource on contentious topics. Therefore, serious researchers can often find a wide range of vigorously or thoughtfully advocated viewpoints not present in the consensus article. As with any source, information should be checked. A 2005 editorial by a BBC technology writer comments that these debates are probably symptomatic of cultural changes that are happening across all sources of information (including search engines and the media), and may lead to "a better sense of how to evaluate information sources".[3] Disclaimers Main page: Wikipedia:General disclaimer Wikipedia disclaimers apply to all pages on Wikipedia. However, the consensus in Wikipedia is to put all disclaimers only as links and at the end of each article. Proposals to have a warning box at the beginning have been rejected. Some do not like the way it looks or that it calls attention to possible errors in Wikipedia. Wikipedia, in common with many websites, has a disclaimer that, at times, has led to commentators citing these in order to support a view that Wikipedia is unreliable. A selection of similar disclaimers from places which are often regarded as reliable (including sources such as Encyclopædia Britannica, Associated Press, and the Oxford English Dictionary) can be read and compared at Wikipedia:Non-Wikipedia disclaimers. Contributing to Wikipedia Main pages: Wikipedia:Contributing to Wikipedia and Help:Introduction to Wikipedia See also: Help:Your first article and Guide to fixing vandalism A downloadable "Editing Wikipedia guide" in PDF form written by the staff at the Wikimedia Foundation Play media Go ahead and be bold — click the edit button! (1:06 min) Anyone can contribute to Wikipedia by clicking on the Edit tab in an article. Before beginning to contribute, however, read some handy helping tools such as the intro tutorial. Creating an account offers many benefits. Editors are expected to add only verifiable and factual information rather than personal views and opinions, and to remain WP:CIVILITY when discussing issues. Vandals will have their edits reverted and be blocked from editing. Most articles start as stubs, but after many contributions, they can become featured articles. Once the contributor has decided a topic of interest, they may want to request that the article be written (or they could research the issue and write it themselves). Wikipedia has on-going projects, focused on specific topic areas or tasks, which help coordinate editing. The ease of editing Wikipedia results in many people editing. That makes the updating of the encyclopedia very quick, almost as fast as news websites. Editing Wikipedia pages Main pages: Help:Editing and Help:Wikitext Play media Editing tutorial for Wikipedia using classic wiki markup. (3:07 min) Wikipedia uses a simple yet powerful page layout to allow editors to concentrate on adding material rather than page design. Page aspects facilitated include: sections and subsections—which follow a page's lead section/introduction and (if specific conditions are met) a table of contents, references, images, tables, indentations lists, links, ISBNs, maths, formatting elements and most world alphabets and common symbols, most of which have simple formats that are deliberately very easy and intuitive. Normally editing is chosen by clicking the Edit tab at the top of a Wikipedia page (or on a section-edit link). This will take you to a new page with a text box containing the editable text of the page you were viewing. In this box, you can type in the text you want to add, using wiki markup to format the text and add other elements like images and tables. You should then press the Show preview button to review your contributions for any errors. When you have finished editing, you should write a short edit summary in the small field below the edit-box describing your changes before you press the Publish changes button. This will help others to understand the intention of your edit. To avoid accidentally leaving edit summaries blank, you can select "Prompt me when entering a blank edit summary" on the Edit tab of your personal preferences. Page editing is accessed through tabs that are found along the top edge of the page. These are: Article. Shows the main Wikipedia article. Talk. Shows a user discussion about the article's topic and possible revisions, controversies, etc. Edit. This tab allows users to edit the article. For highly visible or controversial pages, this tab may not be shown for all users. (For example, any user who is not an administrator will not be able to edit the Main Page.) View history. This tab allows readers to view the editors of the article and the changes that have been made. Star. ("Watch") If you are logged into your account, clicking on the star icon will cause any changes made to the article to be displayed on the watchlist. (Note: when this icon is clicked, it changes to a filled-in star.) Wikipedia has robust version and reversion controls. This means that poor-quality edits or vandalism can quickly and easily be reversed or brought up to an appropriate standard by any other editor, so inexperienced editors cannot accidentally do permanent harm if they make a mistake in their editing. As there are many more editors intent on improving articles than not, error-ridden articles are usually corrected promptly. Wikipedia content criteria Main pages: Wikipedia:Wikipedia in brief and Wikipedia:Core content policies Core content policies Neutral point of view No original research Verifiability Other content policies Article titles Biographies of living persons Image use policy What Wikipedia is not v t e Wikipedia content is intended to be factual, notable, verifiable with cited external sources, and neutrally presented. The appropriate policies and guidelines for these are found at: Wikipedia:What Wikipedia is not, which summarizes what belongs in Wikipedia and what does not; Wikipedia:Neutral point of view, which describes Wikipedia's mandatory core approach to neutral, unbiased article-writing; Wikipedia:No original research, which prohibits the use of Wikipedia to publish personal views and original research of editors and defines Wikipedia's role as an encyclopedia of existing recognized knowledge; Wikipedia:Verifiability, which explains that it must be possible for readers to verify all content against credible external sources (following the guidance in the Wikipedia:Risk disclaimer that is linked-to at the end of every article); Wikipedia:Reliable sources, which explains what factors determine whether a source is acceptable; Wikipedia:Citing sources, which describes the manner of citing sources so that readers can verify content for themselves; And Wikipedia:Manual of Style, which offers a style guide—in general, editors tend to acquire knowledge of appropriate writing styles and detailed formatting over time. These are often abbreviated to WP:NOT, WP:NPOV, WP:NOR, WP:V, WP:RS, WP:CITE, and WP:MOS respectively. Editorial administration, oversight, and management Main pages: Wikipedia:Administration and Wikipedia:Editorial oversight and control Play media Video guided tour #2: Why does Wikipedia work even though anyone can edit it? The Wikipedia community is largely self-organising, so that anyone may build a reputation as a competent editor and become involved in any role s/he may choose, subject to peer approval. Individuals often will choose to become involved in specialised tasks, such as reviewing articles at others' request, watching current edits for vandalism, watching newly created articles for quality control purposes, or similar roles. Editors who believe they can serve the community better by taking on additional administrative responsibility may ask their peers for agreement to undertake such responsibilities. This structure enforces meritocracy and communal standards of editorship and conduct. At present a minimum approval of 75–80% from the community is required to take on these additional tools and responsibilities. This standard tends to ensure a high level of experience, trust, and familiarity across a broad front of aspects within Wikipedia. A variety of software-assisted systems and automated programs help editors and administrators to watch for problematic edits and editors. Theoretically all editors and users are treated equally with no "power structure". There is, however, a hierarchy of permissions and positions, some of which are listed hereafter: Anyone can edit most of the articles here. Some articles are protected because of vandalism or edit-warring, and can be edited only by certain editors. Anyone with an account that has been registered for four days or longer and has made at least ten edits becomes autoconfirmed, and gains the technical ability to do five things that non-autoconfirmed editors cannot: Create pages. Move pages. Edit semi-protected pages. Upload files. Vote in certain elections (minimum edit count to receive suffrage varies depending on the election). Many editors with accounts obtain access to certain tools that make editing easier and faster. Few editors learn about most of those tools, but one common privilege granted to editors in good standing is "rollback", which is the ability to undo edits more easily. Administrators ("admins" or "sysops") have been approved by the community, and have access to some significant administrative tools. They can delete articles, block accounts or IP addresses, and edit fully protected articles. Bureaucrats are chosen in a process similar to that for selecting administrators. There are not very many bureaucrats. They have the technical ability to add or remove admin rights and approve or revoke "bot" privileges. The Arbitration Committee is analogous to Wikipedia's supreme court. They deal with disputes that remain unresolved after other attempts at dispute resolution have failed. Members of this Committee are elected by the community and tend to be selected from among the pool of experienced admins. Stewards hold the top echelon of community permissions. Stewards can do a few technical things, and one almost never hears much about them since they normally act only when a local admin or bureaucrat is not available, and hence almost never on the English Wikipedia. There are very few stewards. Jimmy Wales, the founder of Wikipedia, has several special roles and privileges. In most instances, however, he does not expect to be treated differently than any other editor or administrator. Handling disputes and abuse Main pages: Wikipedia:Vandalism, Wikipedia:Dispute resolution, Wikipedia:Consensus, Wikipedia:Sock puppetry, and Wikipedia:Conflict of interest Wikipedia has a rich set of methods to handle most abuses that commonly arise. These methods are well-tested and should be relied upon. Intentional vandalism can be reported and corrected by anyone. Unresolved disputes between editors, whether based upon behavior, editorial approach, or validity of content, can be addressed through the talk page of an article, through requesting comments from other editors or through Wikipedia's comprehensive dispute resolution process. Abuse of user accounts, such as the creation of "Internet sock puppets" or solicitation of friends and other parties to enforce a non-neutral viewpoint or inappropriate consensus within a discussion, or to disrupt other Wikipedia processes in an annoying manner, are addressed through the sock puppet policy. In addition, new users may initially find that their votes are given less weight by editors in some informal polls in order to prevent abuse of single-purpose accounts. Editorial quality review As well as systems to catch and control substandard and vandalistic edits, Wikipedia also has a full style and content manual and a variety of positive systems for continual article review and improvement. Examples of the processes include peer review, good article assessment, and the featured article process, a rigorous review of articles that are intended to meet the highest standards and showcase Wikipedia's capability to produce high-quality work. In addition, specific types of article or fields often have their own specialized and comprehensive projects, assessment processes (such as biographical article assessment), and expert reviewers within specific subjects. Nominated articles are also frequently the subject of specific focus on the neutral point of view noticeboard or in WikiProject Cleanup. Technical attributes Wikipedia uses MediaWiki software, the open-source program used not only on Wikimedia projects but also on many other third-party websites. The hardware supporting the Wikimedia projects is based on several hundred servers in various hosting centers around the world. Full descriptions of these servers and their roles are available on this Meta-Wiki page. For technical information about Wikipedia, check Technical FAQ. Wikipedia publishes various types of metadata; and, across its pages, are many thousands of microformats. Feedback and questions Wikipedia is run as a communal effort. It is a community project whose result is an encyclopedia. Feedback about content should, in the first instance, be raised on the discussion pages of those articles. Be bold and edit the pages to add information or correct mistakes. Frequently asked questions (FAQ) Main page: Wikipedia:FAQ FAQ index Category:Wikipedia FAQs Static help The Help:Contents may be accessed by clicking help displayed under the ► Interaction tab at the top left of all pages. Help:Menu—is a menu-style page that will direct you to the right place to find information. Help:Directory—is a descriptive listing of all Wikipedia's informative, instructional and consultation pages. Giving feedback There is an established escalation-and-dispute process within Wikipedia, as well as pages designed for questions, feedback, suggestions, and comments. For a full listing of the services and assistance that can be requested on Wikipedia, see Wikipedia:Request directory. Talk pages—the associated discussion page for discussion of an article or policy's contents (usually the first place to go) Wikipedia:Vandalism—a facility for reporting vandalism (but fix vandalism as well as report it) Dispute resolution—the procedure for handling disputes that remain unresolved within an article's talk space Village pump—the Wikipedia discussion area, part of the Community portal Wikipedia:Contact us See also: Bug tracker—a facility for reporting problems with the Wikipedia website or the MediaWiki software that runs it Village pump: proposals page—a place for making non-policy suggestions Wikipedia:Help desk—Wikipedia's general help desk, if other pages have not answered the query Research help and similar questions Facilities to help users researching specific topics can be found at: Wikipedia:Requested articles—to suggest or request new articles. Wikipedia:Reference desk—to ask for help with any questions, or in finding specific facts. Wikipedia:Researching with Wikipedia—for information on using Wikipedia as a research tool. Because of the nature of Wikipedia, it is encouraged that people looking for information should try to find it themselves in the first instance. If, however, information is found to be missing from Wikipedia, be bold and add it so others can gain. Community discussion For a listing of ongoing discussions and current requests, see the dashboard. For specific discussion not related to article content or editor conduct, see the Village pump, which covers such subjects as milestone announcements, policy and technical discussion, and information on other specialized portals such as the help, reference and peer review desks. The Community portal is a centralized place to find things to do, collaborations, and general editing help information, and find out what is happening. The Signpost, a community-edited newspaper, has recent news regarding Wikipedia, its sister projects, and the Wikimedia Foundation. Contacting individual Wikipedia editors To contact individual contributors, leave a message on their talk page. Standard places to ask policy and project-related questions are the Village pump, online, and the Wikipedia mailing lists, over e-mail. Reach other Wikipedians via IRC and e-mail. In addition, the Wikimedia Foundation Meta-Wiki is a site for coordinating the various Wikipedia projects and sister projects (and abstract discussions of policy and direction). Also available are places for submitting bug reports and feature requests. For a full list of contact options, see Wikipedia:Questions. Other languages This Wikipedia is written in English. Started in 2001 (2001), it currently contains 6,067,574 articles. Many other Wikipedias are available; some of the largest are listed below. More than 1,000,000 articles: العربية Deutsch Español Français Italiano Nederlands 日本語 Polski Português Русский Svenska Українська Tiếng Việt 中文 More than 250,000 articles: Bahasa Indonesia Bahasa Melayu Български Català Čeština Dansk Esperanto Euskara فارسی‎ עברית 한국어 Magyar Norsk Bokmål Română Srpski Srpskohrvatski Suomi Türkçe More than 50,000 articles: Asturianu Bosanski Eesti Ελληνικά English (Simple English) Galego Hrvatski Latviešu Lietuvių മലയാളം Norsk nynorsk Slovenčina Slovenščina ไทย Complete list of Wikipedias Sister projects Wikipedia is hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other projects: Commons Free media repository MediaWiki Wiki software development Meta-Wiki Wikimedia project coordination Wikibooks Free textbooks and manuals Wikidata Free knowledge base Wikinews Free-content news Wikiquote Collection of quotations Wikisource Free-content library Wikispecies Directory of species Wikiversity Free learning materials and activities Wikivoyage Free travel guide Wiktionary Dictionary and thesaurus Please note that while other sites may also use MediaWiki software and therefore look like Wikipedia [dot org]—"wiki-" or "-pedia" or anything similar—the only projects which are part of the Wikimedia Foundation are those listed above. See also Help desk Help portal Internet portal For useful directories and indexes, see Wikipedia:Directories and indexes. List of online encyclopedias Wikipedia:A primer for newcomers Wikipedia:Formal organization Wikipedia:History of Wikipedian processes and people Wikipedia:Quality control Wikipedia:Ten things you may not know about Wikipedia Wikipedia:Wikipedia (disambiguation) Wikipedia: The Missing Manual Wikimedia power structure (Meta) References ^ "Wikistats - Statistics For Wikimedia Projects". stats.wikimedia.org. Wikimedia Foundation. Retrieved 10 March 2020. ^ "Milestones 2001". Wikipedia, www.wikipedia.org. ^ Bill Thompson, "What is it with Wikipedia?" BBC, December 16, 2005. Further reading Main article: Bibliography of Wikipedia Phoebe Ayers; Charles Matthews; Ben Yates (2008). How Wikipedia Works. No Starch Press. ISBN 978-1-59327-176-3. John Broughton (2008). Wikipedia Reader's Guide: The Missing Manual. O'Reilly Media, Inc. ISBN 978-0-596-55387-6. John Broughton (2008). Wikipedia: The Missing Manual. O'Reilly Media, Inc. ISBN 978-0-596-55377-7. Dan O'Sullivan (24 September 2009). Wikipedia: A New Community of Practice?. Ashgate Publishing, Ltd. ISBN 978-1-4094-8606-0. Andrew Lih (17 March 2009). The Wikipedia revolution: how a bunch of nobodies created the world's greatest encyclopedia. Hyperion. ISBN 978-1-4013-0371-6. Joseph Michael Reagle, Jr.; Lawrence Lessig (30 September 2010). Good Faith Collaboration: The Culture of Wikipedia. MIT Press. ISBN 978-0-262-01447-2. External links External video Jimmy Wales: The birth of Wikipedia, 2005 TED (conference), 20 mins. Mission statement—The Wikimedia Foundation Wikimedia values—The six values of the Wikimedia Foundation Frequently asked questions|In a nutshell, what is Wikipedia? And what is the Wikimedia Foundation?—The Wikimedia Foundation Wikimedia founding principles—Principles generally supported by all the Wikimedia communities Ten Simple Rules for Editing Wikipedia v t e Basic information on Wikipedia Help directory menu Reference desk Help desk About Wikipedia Administration FAQs Purpose Who writes Wikipedia? Organization Censorship Why create an account? In brief General disclaimer What Wikipedia is not Readers' FAQ Parental advice Navigation Searching Viewing media Help Mobile access Other languages Researching with Wikipedia Citing Wikipedia Students help Readers' index Copyright Book creation Contributing to Wikipedia Main introduction Tutorial Tutorials and introductions The answer Dos and don'ts Learning the ropes Common mistakes Newcomer primer Plain and simple Your first article Wizard Young Wikipedians The Adventure Protocols and conventions Five pillars Simplified ruleset Simplified MoS Etiquette Expectations Oversight Principles Ignore all rules The rules are principles Core content policies Policies and guidelines Policies Guidelines Vandalism Appealing blocks Getting assistance Requests for help Request editor assistance Disputes resolution requests IRC live chat Tutorial Village pump Contact us Wikipedia community Community portal Dashboard Noticeboards Departments Maintenance Task Center Essays Meetups WikiProjects Sourcing and referencing Finding sources Combining sources Referencing Citations Citation Style 1 Citation templates Footnotes Page numbers Cite errors Information Editing Toolbar Conflict VisualEditor User guide Category Diffs Email confirmation Infoboxes Linking Link color Manual of Style Simplified Namespaces Page name URLs User contribution pages Using talk pages Archiving Image and media files Images Media files How-to Guide to page deletion Image deletion Logging in Merging pages Page renaming Requests Redirecting Reset passwords Reverting Uploading images Wiki markup Wiki markup Cheatsheet Barcharts Calculations Columns HTML Lists Magic words For beginners Music symbols Sections Sounds Special Characters Tables Templates Documentation Index Tools Transclusion Visual file markup Tutorial Directories Abbreviations Contents Edit summaries Essays Glossary Index The Missing Manual Shortcuts Tips Tip of the day Wikis Teahouse (interactive help for new editors) Ask for help on your talk page (a volunteer will visit you there) v t e Wikipedia community For a listing of current collaborations, tasks, and news, see the Community portal. For a listing of ongoing discussions and current requests, see the Dashboard. General community topics Administration News The Signpost Goings-on In the media Meetups Mailing lists Wikipedians Statistics Milestones The Wikipedia Library Centralized discussion Village pump Idea lab Policy Proposals Technical Miscellaneous Contents and grading Requested articles Most-wanted articles Images needing articles Articles needing images Articles for creation WP:AFC/R Creation Help Vital articles Today's articles for improvement Peer review Good article nominations Featured article candidates Lists Pictures Topics Article translation Pages Main Page Errors WikiProjects and collaborations Directory Culture and the arts Geographical History and society Science, technology and engineering Wikipedia assistance and tasks Patrols Recent changes Counter-Vandalism Unit Version 1.0 Editorial Team Accessibility Organizations category Awards and feedback Reward board Contests A nice cup of tea and a sit down Charitableness WikiLove Compliment before criticism Kindness Campaign Thanks! Maintenance tasks Task Center Open tasks Backlog Category Admin category Edit requests Category Database reports Category tracker Dusty articles Special pages New pages Recent changes Controversial issues Administrators and noticeboards Administrators' noticeboard Incidents Edit warring Vandalism Admin dashboard Admin requests Closure Page protection User permissions Sockpuppets Open proxies Revision deletion Oversight Request Usernames Changing Title blacklist OTRS Bureaucrats' Requests for adminship and bureaucratship Arbitration Committee Requests Enforcement Content dispute resolution Editor assistance Requests for comment Third opinion Dispute resolution noticeboard Biographies of living persons Conflict of interest External links Fringe theories Neutral point of view No original research Reliable sources Other noticeboards and assistance Regional notice boards Requests for help Category Asking questions Teahouse Help desk Reference desk Adopt-a-user Copyright assistance Copyright investigations Text problems Media questions Resource requests Mergers History mergers Moves Page importation Spam Blacklist Whitelist Bots Education New pages patrol General sanctions Editor sanctions Long-term abuse Deletion discussions Guide Admin Today Articles Templates Files Categories Redirects Miscellany Speedy Proposed BLP Books Review Undeletion Arguments to avoid Arguments to make Article Rescue Elections and votings Requests for comment (meta) Wikimedia Foundation elections WP Democracy Voting is not evil Milestones Directories and indexes and summaries Departments Edit summary legend Editor's index Essays FAQs Glossary Abbreviations Help Manual of Style Simplified Rules Five pillars Policies Guidelines Shortcuts Templates Citation templates Tips Today Tools Wikis Wiki markup Media Category Templates v t e Wikipedia key policies and guidelines (?) Five pillars What Wikipedia is not Ignore all rules Content (?) Verifiability No original research Neutral point of view What Wikipedia is not Biographies of living persons Image use Article titles Notability Autobiography Citing sources Reliable sources medicine Do not include copies of lengthy primary sources Plagiarism Don't create hoaxes Fringe theories Patent nonsense External links Conduct (?) Civility Consensus Editing policy Harassment Vandalism Ignore all rules No personal attacks Ownership of content Edit warring Dispute resolution Sock puppetry No legal threats Child protection Paid-contribution disclosure Assume good faith Conflict of interest Disruptive editing Do not disrupt Wikipedia to illustrate a point Etiquette Gaming the system Please do not bite the newcomers Courtesy vanishing Responding to threats of harm Deletion (?) Deletion policy Proposed deletion Biographies Books Criteria for speedy deletion Attack page Oversight Revision deletion Enforcement (?) Administrators Banning Blocking Page protection Editing (?) Article size Be bold Disambiguation Hatnotes Talk page guidelines Signatures Broad-concept article Style Manual of Style Contents Accessibility Understandability Dates and numbers Images Layout Lead section Linking Lists Classification Categories, lists, and navigation templates Categorization Template namespace Project content (?) Project namespace WikiProjects User pages User boxes Shortcuts Subpages WMF (?) Terms of Use List of policies Friendly space policy Licensing and copyright Privacy policy List of all policies and guidelines List of policies List of guidelines Lists of attempts in creating fundamental principles v t e Wikipedia Overview (Outline) Censorship Conflict-of-interest editing Criticism gender bias ideological bias racial bias Deletionism and inclusionism MediaWiki Notability Reliability Vandalism Predictions of the project's end Community Administrators AfroCrowd Arbitration Committee Citation needed Edit-a-thon "Ignore all rules" policy List of Wikipedias The Signpost Wikipedian in residence WikiConference North America Wikimania WikiProject Women in Red People Florence Devouard Sue Gardner James Heilman Katherine Maher Magnus Manske Erik Möller Ira Brad Matetsky Larry Sanger María Sefidari Lila Tretikov Jimmy Wales Wikipedians Wikimedian of the Year History Bomis Logo Controversies U.S. Congressional staff edits Essjay controversy Seigenthaler biography incident Henryk Batuta hoax Jar'Edo Wens hoax Internet Watch Foundation Scientology Italian Wikipedia blackout English Wikipedia blackout Hillsborough Wikipedia posts MyWikiBiz Lsjbot VisualEditor Art+Feminism #1Lib1Ref Response to the 2019–20 coronavirus pandemic Honors 2008 Quadriga award Wikipedia Monument 2015 Erasmus Prize 2015 Princess of Asturias Award References and analysis Cultural Bibliography Films Academic studies Listen to Wikipedia Wiki-Watch Wikipediocracy WikiScanner Wikipedia Review Mobile access Apps QRpedia Wapedia WikiNodes Wikipedia Zero Wikiwand Content use Books LLC Boundless (company) DBpedia Deletionpedia Kiwix WikiReader Science information Health information Similar projects Interpedia Nupedia Citizendium Enciclopedia Libre Universal en Español Everipedia Veropedia List of online encyclopedias List of wikis Related Wikimedia Foundation Wikimedia movement The Iraq War: A Historiography of Wikipedia Changelogs Print Wikipedia Magna Carta (An Embroidery) 274301 Wikipedia Viola wikipedia List Category Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:About&oldid=952427410" Categories: Wikipedia basic information Hidden categories: Project pages with short description Wikipedia semi-protected project pages Pages using the Graph extension Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Project page Talk Variants Views Read View source View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item In other projects Wikimedia Commons MediaWiki Meta-Wiki Wikispecies Wikidata Wikinews Wikiquote Wikisource Wikivoyage Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Afrikaans Alemannisch Аҧсшәа العربية Aragonés অসমীয়া Asturianu Azərbaycanca تۆرکجه বাংলা Banjar Башҡортса Беларуская Беларуская (тарашкевіца)‎ भोजपुरी Bikol Central Български Boarisch བོད་ཡིག Català Чӑвашла Cebuano Chi-Chewa Cymraeg Dansk Davvisámegiella Deutsch Diné bizaad Ελληνικά Español Euskara فارسی Føroyskt Français Frysk Galego ГӀалгӀай ગુજરાતી 𐌲𐌿𐍄𐌹𐍃𐌺 한국어 Հայերեն हिन्दी Bahasa Hulontalo Ilokano Bahasa Indonesia Ирон Íslenska Italiano עברית Jawa ಕನ್ನಡ Kapampangan Қазақша Kiswahili Kurdî Кыргызча Latviešu Lëtzebuergesch Lietuvių Magyar Македонски Māori მარგალური مصرى مازِرونی Bahasa Melayu Монгол မြန်မာဘာသာ नेपाली 日本語 ߒߞߏ Нохчийн Nordfriisk Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk ꆇꉙ ଓଡ଼ିଆ ਪੰਜਾਬੀ ភាសាខ្មែរ Polski Português Română Runa Simi Русский Саха тыла Sängö Scots සිංහල Simple English سنڌي Slovenčina Slovenščina Soomaaliga کوردی Српски / srpski Sunda Suomi Svenska Tagalog தமிழ் Татарча/tatarça ၽႃႇသႃႇတႆး తెలుగు ไทย Тоҷикӣ Türkçe Українська ئۇيغۇرچە / Uyghurche Tiếng Việt Walon Winaray Wolof 吴语 ייִדיש Yorùbá 粵語 Zazaki 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 22 April 2020, at 05:09 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view