https://www.wikimediafoundation.org/
Wikimedia Foundation
Skip to content Skip to navigation Wikimedia Foundation Toggle menu Wikimedia Foundation Current language: en English العربية 中文 Français Español Donate now Our Work Support Wikipedia Research Advocacy Technology News Participate About Toggle search Search Imagine a world in which every single human being can freely share in the sum of all knowledge. उस दुनिया की कल्पना करें जिसमें हर एक इंसान स्वतंत्र रूप से सभी ज्ञान के योग में साझा कर सकता है। Imaginez le monde dans lequel chaque être humain peut partager librement la somme de toutes les connaissances. تخيل عالما يستطيع فيه كل أنسان ان يشارك بحريه في مجموع المعرفة Imagine el mundo en el que cada ser humano puede compartir libremente la suma de todo el conocimiento. Responding to COVID-19 In this time of uncertainty, our enduring commitment is to provide reliable and neutral information for the world. Learn more The nonprofit Wikimedia Foundation provides the essential infrastructure for free knowledge. We host Wikipedia, the free online encyclopedia, created, edited, and verified by volunteers around the world, as well as many other vital community projects. All of which is made possible thanks to donations from individuals like you. We welcome anyone who shares our vision to join us in collecting and sharing knowledge that fully represents human diversity. Protect and sustain Wikipedia Donate now Donations are secure English · العربية · 中文 · Français · Español 1 Wikimedia projects belong to everyone You made it. It is yours to use. For free. That means you can use it, adapt it, or share what you find on Wikimedia sites. Just do not write your own bio, or copy/paste it into your homework. 2 We respect your data and privacy We do not sell your email address or any of your personal information to third parties. More information about our privacy practices are available at the Wikimedia Foundation privacy policy, donor privacy policy, and data retention guidelines. 3 People like you keep Wikipedia accurate Readers verify the facts. Articles are collaboratively created and edited by a community of volunteers using reliable sources, so no single person or company owns a Wikipedia article. The Wikimedia Foundation does not write or edit, but you and everyone you know can help. 4 Not all wikis are Wikimedia The word “wiki” refers to a website built using collaborative editing software. Projects with no past or existing affiliation with Wikipedia or the Wikimedia Foundation, such as Wikileaks and wikiHow, also use the term. Although these sites also use "wiki" in their name, they have nothing to do with Wikimedia. 200,000+ editors contribute to Wikimedia projects every month Tweet this 47+ million media files on Wikimedia Commons Tweet this 1+ billion unique devices access Wikimedia projects every month Tweet this Research We conduct our own research and partner with researchers worldwide to address change in society and technology. More about research Technology From site reliability to machine learning, our open-source technology makes Wikipedia faster, more reliable, and more accessible worldwide. More about technology Advocacy We fight to protect everyone’s right to access free and open knowledge. More about advocacy Projects — Proyectos Collaborative projects are the core of the Wikimedia movement. Our volunteers build tools, share photos, write articles, and are working to connect all the knowledge that exists. See all projects Wikipedia Free encyclopedia written in 300 languages by volunteers around the world. Wikimedia Commons The world's largest free-to-use library of illustrations, photos, drawings, videos and music. NEWS — الأخبار See what we have been up to 6 March 2020 Amid COVID-19, Wikimedia Foundation offers full pay for reduced hours, mobilizes all staff to work remote, and waives sick time Update: On March 14, 2020, the Wikimedia Foundation announced new measures to support employees and protect general public health amid COVID-19. As part of these operational actions, we have: Closed both Foundation offices in San Francisco and Washington, DC, until at least March 31, 2020. All staff are now working remotely. Shifted to a reduced…. Read more 15 January 2020 Access to Wikipedia restored in Turkey after more than two and a half years Today, on Wikipedia’s 19th birthday, the Wikimedia Foundation has received reports that access to Wikipedia in Turkey is actively being restored.* This latest development follows a 26 December 2019 ruling by the Constitutional Court of Turkey that the more than two and a half year block imposed by the Turkish government was unconstitutional. Earlier today,…. Read more Profiles — 簡介 Wikimedians are heroes of free knowledge. Emily Temple-Wood Editor since 2007, Wikimedia community Vitor Mazuco Editor since 2009, Wikimedia community Pranayraj Vangari Editor since 2013, Wikimedia community Throughout history, knowledge has been controlled by a powerful few. Wikipedia needs knowledge from all languages and cultures. The internet has become the default for accessing information—women, people of color, and the global south remain underrepresented. We invite you to help correct history. Join the movement Help us unlock the world’s knowledge. As a nonprofit, Wikipedia and our related free knowledge projects are powered primarily through donations. Donate now Connect — 連接 Stay up-to-date on our work. Get email updates Subscribe to news about ongoing projects and initiatives. Email address Subscribe This mailing list is powered by MailChimp. The Wikimedia Foundation will handle your personal information in accordance with this site's privacy policy. Contact a human Questions about the Wikimedia Foundation or our projects? Get in touch with our team. Contact Follow Facebook @Wikimedia Instagram Photo credits Set Knowledge Free mural Tomi Um CC BY-SA 4.0 Lighting through the ages Maurice Dessertenne Public domain Wikimedia Conference 2017 Jason Krüger/Wikimedia Deutschland e.V. CC BY-SA 4.0 Papaul_Tshibamba-3 Victor Grigas CC BY SA 3.0 SOPA protest in Midtown NYC Zachary McCune CC BY-SA 4.0 Wikipedia logo Nohat; Paullusmagnus; Wikimedia CC-BY-SA 3.0 Wikimedia Commons logo Reidab; User:Grunt; 3247 Public domain Another dimension Rene Böhmer Unsplash license Welcome back Turkey graphic - English Wikimedia Foundation CC BY-SA 4.0 Emily Temple-Wood at Wikimania 2014 Victor Grigas/Wikimedia Foundation CC BY-SA 3.0 Vitor Mazuco Matthew (WMF) CC BY-SA 3.0 Pranayraj Vangari Pranayraj Vangari CC BY-SA 4.0 Art+Feminism Wikipedia edit-a-thon Jens Mohr CC BY-SA 3.0 Careers Contact Press The Wikimedia Foundation, Inc is a nonprofit charitable organization dedicated to encouraging the growth, development and distribution of free, multilingual content, and to providing the full content of these wiki-based projects to the public free of charge. Wikimedia projects Wikipedia Wikibooks Wikiversity Wikinews Wiktionary Wikisource Wikiquote Wikivoyage Wikimedia Commons Wikidata Wikispecies MediaWiki Movement affiliates Wikimedia Chapters Wikimedia Thematic Organizations Wikimedia User Groups Other Terms of use Privacy policy Disclaimers Accessibility statement Cookie statement Except where otherwise noted, the content of this site is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported license. Powered by WordPress.com VIP. Automattic Privacy Notice. esc