https://history.house.gov/
US House of Representatives: History, Art & Archives
United States House of Representatives: History, Art, & Archives Map Blog Multimedia About Search the website Institution People Exhibitions & Publications Collections Oral History Education Records & Research Congressional Profiles Historical Highlights Origins & Development: From the Constitution to the Modern House Elections & Vacancies House Service & Seniority Congressional Apportionment Electoral College Fast Facts Firsts & Milestones Party Divisions Session Dates of Congress Saturday & Sunday Legislative Days Joint Meetings, Joint Sessions, & Inaugurations Presidents, Vice Presidents, & Coinciding Sessions of Congress Presidential Vetoes Congressional Gold Medal Recipients Funerals in the House Chamber Foreign Leaders and Dignitaries Who Have Addressed the U.S. Congress Individuals Who Have Lain in State or Honor State of the Union Desk Assignments Calendars of the House of Representatives Résumés Of Congressional Activitity Featured Search Historical Highlights of the House Learn about Foreign Leader Addresses People Search Mapping Congress Speakers of the House Majority Leaders Minority Leaders Democratic Whips Republican Whips Democratic Caucus Chairmen Republican Conference Chairmen Clerks of the House Chaplains of the House Chief Administrative Officers of the House Parliamentarians of the House Sergeants at Arms Appointed Officials of the House Postmasters of the House Doorkeepers of the House John W. McCormack Annual Award of Excellence to Congressional Employees House Members Who Became U.S. Supreme Court Justices House Members Who Received Electoral College Votes Continental and Confederation Congresses Featured Search the People of the House Majority Leaders Asian and Pacific Islander Americans in Congress Hispanic Americans in Congress Black Americans in Congress Women in Congress Jeannette Rankin’s Historic Election: A Century of Women in Congress The House and Civil Rights Florence Kahn: Congressional Widow to Trailblazing Lawmaker How the House Works The First Women in Congress What's in the Capitol? House Office Buildings The Tourist’s Capitol Electronic Technology in the House of Representatives The House Impeaches Andrew Johnson The People’s House: A Guide to Its History, Spaces, and Traditions History of the House Page Program The 1954 Shooting An Annual Outing: The Congressional Baseball Game What's on the Menu? Bean Soup! Featured Online Exhibit: How the House Works The People’s House Collections Search Events Furniture & Decorative Arts Historical Artifacts Life in the House Painting & Sculpture People Photographs Places Popular Culture Prints & Drawings Featured Mace of the U.S. House of Represen- tatives A Century of Women in Congress September 11, 2001 People Events Institution Objects Documentaries Interviewees Oral History Transcripts Featured 1954 Shooting in the House Chamber National History Day 2020: Resource Guide Book Request Form for Educators Take #UncleJoeOnTheGo Time for a Tour: Visiting the People’s House Lesson Plans Education Fact Sheets Glossary House Trivia Timeline Featured Travels With Uncle Joe Records Search Researching the House: Official Records Researching the House: Other Primary Sources Researching the House: Bibliographies Researching the House: Secondary Sources Finding Aids for Official House Records Featured Records Search: Explore Primary Sources About Vote to feature this on the home page Cite Print Share Discover the rich heritage of “the People’s House” and its central role in U.S. history since 1789. Explore its unique story and the men and women who have shaped it. Browse its collections. Access historical data and other research resources. Whereas: Stories from the People’s House April 24, 2020 Edition for Educators—The Agriculture Committee Bicentennial On April 29, 1820, North Carolina Representative Lewis Williams rose to address what he saw as an injustice in the House of Representatives. Williams pointed out that the House already had a Committee on Manufactures which received petitions from commercial interests, but that it lacked an equivalent committee to consider the interests of America’s farmers. “When agriculture is oppressed, and makes complaint, what tribunal is in this House to hear and determine on the grievance?” he asked. More > House History Representative-elect Jeannette Rankin of Montana This Hearst-Pathe News footage features Representative-elect Jeannette Rankin of Montana who is filmed visiting Chicago, Illinois, before heading to Washington, D.C. for the opening of the 65th Congress (1917–1919). Source: National Archives Records Administration More > About The Offices This site is a collaborative project between the Office of the Historian and the Clerk of the House's Office of Art and Archives. The offices preserve, collect, and interpret the heritage of the U.S. House, serving as the institution’s memory and a resource for Members, staff, and the general public. Explore Historical Highlight April 29, 1975 Representative Shirley Pettis of California April 29, 1789 The First House-Contested Election Featured Collection Object Featured Oral History Chairman Portrait: Ronald V. Dellums Featured Records Funds for a Veterans’ Hospital Petition for Woman Suffrage Committee Office of the Historian: history@mail.house.gov Office of Art & Archives, Office of the Clerk: art@mail.house.gov, archives@mail.house.gov Contact Privacy YouTube Tweet Close Cite This Page History, Art & Archives, U.S. House of Representatives, “Home Page,” https://history.house.gov/ (April 29, 2020) For Additional Information Office of the Historian Office of Art and Archives Attic, Thomas Jefferson Building Washington, D.C. 20515 (202) 226-1300 history@mail.house.gov art@mail.house.gov archives@mail.house.gov