https://www.britannica.com/
Encyclopedia Britannica | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Celebrating the Centennial of the Nineteenth Amendment Explore More Search Britannica Click here to search Superhero Day Look, up in the sky! It's a bird! It's a plane! It's a string of SpaceX satellites! In the four-color world of comics, the heavens are more likely to be filled with caped avengers, and April 28 is a day to celebrate these paragons of modern mythology. Test Your Knowledge of Capes and Cowls Which Captain Marvel? Make Mine Indy! Real-Life Heroines Superheroes aren't just comic book characters. Here are five nurses who deserve recognition. The adventures of Mrs. Seacole Overcoming racial prejudice, Mary Seacole provided much-needed medical care to British soldiers during the Crimean War. “I have no fear” While stationed in German-controlled Belgium, British nurse Edith Cavell helped hundreds of Allied soldiers escape, resulting in her execution. Battling color barriers Thanks largely to Mabel Keaton Staupers, the segregation of the U.S. Armed Forces Nurse Corps ended. "Angel of the battlefield" Clara Barton devoted much of her life to helping people, whether it was a nurse during the Civil War or as founder of the American Red Cross. Delivering health care to the frontier Mary Breckinridge created the Frontier Nursing Service, which dramatically reduced maternal and neonatal death rates in rural Appalachia. Trending Quizzes Human Body Fun Facts: Fact or Fiction? Are certain people more accident-prone than others? Do firstborn children have higher IQ scores than their younger siblings? Learn these answers and more in this quiz. The Titanic The Titanic was a marvel. How much do you know about this infamous ship? Test your knowledge with this quiz. U.S. Presidents Facts Who was the first U.S. president to live in the White House? How many presidents were born before the U.S. became a country? From teddy bears to terms in office, test your knowledge of American presidents in this quiz. Pop Culture Quiz Are you a princess of Pop? The king of Culture? See if you’re an entertainment expert by answering these questions. Inventors and Inventions Our earliest human ancestors invented the wheel, but who invented the ball bearing that reduces rotational friction? Let the wheels in your head turn while testing your knowledge of inventors and their inventions in this quiz. Butterflies and Moths: Fact or Fiction How many species of butterflies and moths exist? Are moths harmful to the global economy? Test your knowledge of these colorful and graceful creatures by taking this quiz. Nut or Not? Do you know which culinary nuts are true botanical nuts? U.S. State Capitals Quiz Do you know the capitals of the 50 states? In this quiz, you’ll be given a state, and you’ll need to select its capital city—all 50 of them. Computers and Technology Computer chips host websites composed of HTML and send text messages as simple as...LOL. Hack into this quiz and let a chip tally your score and reveal the contents on your computer screen. Explore India Delhi lies on which river? How many countries border India? Explore the many rivers and cities that make up this colorful nation. Explore Encyclopedia Britannica Dunning-Krueger effect You're No Einstein This cognitive bias explains why a person who has spent five minutes on Google might believe that they are as competent as a legitimate expert in a given field. Subscriber Exclusive First Edition Travel back to a time when when doing laundry was a multi-day task, the United States did not exist, and electricity was a new discovery. Digitized for our valued subscribers, we’ve curated some of the best of the original 2,500 pages, with articles and engravings. 7 Suffragists You Should Know “The best protection any woman can have...is courage.” In 2020 Britannica is celebrating the centennial of the Nineteenth Amendment’s ratification. To mark the landmark event, we highlight a few of the suffragist who led the 72-year fight to win the vote for women. Imprisoned More Than Any Other American Suffragist "Ain't I a Woman?" Helped Organize the Seneca Falls Convention Drafted the First Equal Rights Amendment Fought All Inequality "Battle Hymn of the Republic" SUBSCRIBE TO BRITANNICA PREMIUM! Get access to all of our trusted content; including exclusive content from our 1768 First Edition. Welcome Experts! Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program, our community of experts, and gain a global audience for your writings, photographs, and multimedia. Educators & Administrators Learn more about our exciting, up-to-date educational products that meet the needs of students at all levels. Featured Blog Advocacy for Animals Fauci calls for closing down wildlife markets around the globe Closing wildlife markets within countries, as Dr. Anthony Fauci of the White House coronavirus task force rightly suggests, may be a more effective tool, however. This article examines the prevalence of wildlife markets around… Read More Featured Blog Alain Elkann Interviews Alain has been writing a weekly interview column for the Italian newspaper La Stampa since 1989. His interviews celebrate some of the best known and successful personalities of the present day. Learn More Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Our Sites Britannica Kids Merriam-Webster School & Library Britannica Store Quizzes Image Galleries Escola Britannica English-Arabic Spanish Central Nglish Sp-En Translation Mobile iPhone App iPad App Britannica Kids Apps International Australia Brazil China Japan Latin America United Kingdom Content & Editorial Publishing Partner Program Syndication International Publishing Webmaster Site Map New Articles Stay Connected Newsletters Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!