https://www.britannica.com/stories/demystified
Demystified | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Demystified Never stop questioning! Britannica's Demystified stories give insight into some of life's big mysteries; uncover the answers to the questions below and more! Do We Really Swallow Spiders in Our Sleep? Why Do Americans Celebrate Independence Day with Fireworks? What Is an Injunction? Is Zero an Even or an Odd Number? Still Curious? Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Browse Demystified by Category Animals Arts & Culture Food Geography Health & Medicine History Literature & Language Music Philosophy & Religion Pop Culture Science Society Sports & Recreation Technology Choose a category Animals Arts & Culture Food Geography Health & Medicine History Literature & Language Music Philosophy & Religion Pop Culture Science Society Sports & Recreation Technology Health & Medicine What Is the Difference Between Influenza and COVID-19? Geography Why Is Ireland Two Countries? Animals Why Do Flamingos Stand on One Leg? Animals Do Sharks Sleep? Animals Did Humans Live at the Same Time as Dinosaurs? Society Why Is Thanksgiving in the U.S. Celebrated on a Thursday? Animals Why Do Some Animals Hibernate? Society Why Do We Celebrate Halloween? Society How Do You Get a Nobel Prize? Science Do We Really Swallow Spiders in Our Sleep? Sports & Recreation Who Really Invented Baseball? Animals Why Do Horses Sleep Standing Up? Society What If the President Is Impeached? Technology What’s the Difference Between Bluetooth and Wi-Fi? Animals Why Do Cats Sleep So Much? Science What’s the Difference Between a Glacier and an Ice Floe? History Was Napoleon Short? Pop Culture Why Are People Afraid of Clowns? Science What Happens to Earth If the Amazon Rainforest Is Completely Burned? Geography What Is the Newest Country in the World? Animals Do Hyenas Really Laugh? Animals Did Dinosaurs Really Have Feathers? Animals Why are cicadas so noisy? Technology How Much Trash Is In Space? Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!