https://www.britannica.com/stories/wtfact
#WTFact | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Britannica #WTFact Society A Brief (and Fascinating) History of Money Society Alternative Christmas Visitors Animals How Mike the Chicken Survived Without a Head Arts & Culture Walt Disney’s First Cartoon Critter Was Not Mickey Mouse Health & Medicine The Strange, Grisly History of the First Blood Transfusion Society Cannibalism: Cultures, Cures, Cuisine, and Calories Animals The 1916 Shark Attacks That Gave Sharks a Bad Rap Arts & Culture Beautiful Gibberish: Fake Arabic in Medieval and Renaissance Art Health & Medicine 9 Bizarre Myths About Pregnancy Music Carlo Gesualdo: Murder, Witchcraft, Choral Music Arts & Culture The Most Stolen Work of Art Society Rest in Peace? Not for These 7 Unlucky Individuals Literature & Language The Bizarre Origins of the Words Nerd and Geek History Queen Elizabeth's Court Occultist Literature & Language The Mysterious Death of Edgar Allan Poe Literature & Language The Time a Law Clerk Successfully Forged a New Shakespeare Play to Impress His Dad History How the Symbolism of the Swastika Was Ruined Science Beyond Venus Flytraps: The Plants that Eat Meat Literature & Language What Did Shakespeare Sound Like? History Ten Days That Vanished: The Switch to the Gregorian Calendar Arts & Culture How a Rejected Block of Marble Became the World’s Most Famous Statue History The Time Julius Caesar Was Captured by Pirates Food How Oprah Got Sued for Dissing a Burger History The Surprisingly Disorderly History of the U.S. Presidential Succession Order Literature & Language Diagnosing 9 of Charles Dickens’s Most Famous Characters Animals Vikings Helped Cats Conquer the World Science The Oldest Human Ancestor Science The Real Science Behind Frankenstein History Famous Mustaches in History Geography Why New York Is Called "The Big Apple" and How 8 Other Famous Cities Got Their Nicknames History Pirate School: 5 Things You Can Shoot from a Cannon History Gilles de Rais: History’s First Serial Killer? Science The Arctic’s Seed-Filled Doomsday Fortress Animals Freaky Fluorescent Frog Found Animals 10 Deadly Animals that Fit in a Breadbox Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!