https://www.britannica.com/explore/100women/
Fight For Women's Rights - Britannica Presents 100 Women Trailblazers
Suffragist Movement Meet The Women Know the History Test Your Knowledge Polls Why Britannica Visit Britannica.com › Start Your Free Trial › Why Britannica Visit Britannica.com › Start Your Free Trial › Suffragist Movement Meet The Women Know the History Test Your Knowledge Polls Search Close Search Search: Submit Menu The Suffrage Movement About the Suffragist Movement Celebrating 100 Year anniversary of the Suffrage movement, where women earned the right to vote Learn More United Voice for Women Fighting for Right to Vote American Woman Suffrage Association League of Women Voters National American Woman Suffrage Association National Woman Suffrage Association National Woman’s Party Women’s Social and Political Union History-Making Supreme Court Cases Supreme Court Cases Roe v. Wade Griswold v. State of Connecticut Meritor Savings Bank v. Vinson Adkins v. Children’s Hospital Muller v. State of Oregon Meet the American Suffragists Susan B. Anthony Elizabeth Cady Stanton Lucretia Mott Carrie Chapman Catt Lucy Stone Jane Addams Sojourner Truth Meet the Suffragists Around the World Emmeline Pankhurst Christabel Pankhurst Mary Wollstonecraft Kate Sheppard Doria Shafik Alice Henry Margery Corbett Ashby Meet the Women Who Ran their Country Angela Merkel Margaret Thatcher Julia Gillard Sirimavo Bandaranaike Golda Meir Indira Gandhi Edith Cresson Meet the History-Making Politicians Amy Klobuchar Elizabeth Warren Geraldine Ferraro Victoria Woodhull Jeannette Rankin Madeleine Albright Frances Perkins Follow The Suffrage Journey Suffrage Timeline Women have fought for the right to vote for nearly seven decades, enduring countless setbacks and challenges. Learn More › Follow the Journey of Female's First Achievements Women’s History: Female Firsts Discover such precedent-setting women as the first female Nobel laureate and the world’s first female prime minister. Learn more Journey Through Women's History Women’s History: Arts Women’s History: Science Women’s History: Sports Featured Women's History Quiz Famous Suffragettes Quiz Women have accomplished some fantastic feats in the course of history. Test your knowledge of some famous firsts for women. Test Your Knowledge Featured Women's History Quiz U.S. Government Quiz How many women have served in the Senate? Who was the first female to hold a cabinet post? Discover how much you know about women in U.S. politics. Test Your Knowledge Women's History Quizzes Female Activists Quiz First Ladies of the United States Quiz Nineteenth Amendment Quiz Results page Famous Women’s Firsts Quiz Your Vote Matters Featured Poll – Abortion Rights Are you more likely to vote for a candidate that supports abortion rights? Clock in Your Vote Tell Us What You Think Featured Poll-Women Politicians How important is getting women politicians elected? Clock in Your Vote We're Counting Your Votes Featured Poll-Company-Leadership How would you describe your current company's leadership team? Clock in Your Vote Every Vote Counts Featured Poll-Affordable Healthcare How important is affordable healthcare? Clock in Your Vote 2020 | BRITANNICA'S 100WOMEN Celebrating the Centennial of the Nineteenth Amendment From Seneca Falls to the Silent Sentinels, we present the 72-year fight to secure women’s suffrage in the United States. And while honoring the victory, we also explore the ongoing struggle for women’s rights. Through articles, timelines, quizzes, and media, we tell the story the way that only Britannica can. READ THE FOREWORD Meet the Last year Britannica honored 100 trailblazing women who left their indelible marks on the world, whether conducting groundbreaking research or guiding others to freedom as a “conductor” on the Underground Railroad. This year we focus on the women who made their name at the ballot box. We highlight suffragists who helped secure women’s right to vote and the politicians who made history with landmark elections. Meet the Women Women’s History: Female Firsts Women’s History: Science Women’s History: Sports Women’s History: Arts Meet the Suffragists Christabel Pankhurst Elizabeth Cady Stanton Emmeline Pankhurst Jane Addams Suffrage Timeline Meet Country Leaders Angela Merkel Madeleine Albright U.S. Government Quiz Meet History Making Politicians Amy Klobuchar Geraldine Ferraro Hillary Clinton Indira Gandhi Jeannette Rankin Menu Meet the Women Women’s History: Female Firsts Women’s History: Science Women’s History: Sports Women’s History: Arts Meet the Suffragists Christabel Pankhurst Elizabeth Cady Stanton Emmeline Pankhurst Jane Addams Suffrage Timeline Meet Country Leaders Angela Merkel Madeleine Albright U.S. Government Quiz Meet History Making Politicians Amy Klobuchar Geraldine Ferraro Hillary Clinton Indira Gandhi Jeannette Rankin "I'm no longer accepting the things I cannot change…I'm changing the things I cannot accept.". Angela Davis AMERICAN ACTIVIST JULY 19 1 The suffrage movement was launched in the United States at the Seneca Falls Convention. FEBRUARY 19 1 American writer Betty Friedan published The Feminine Mystique, a landmark book. JUNE 30 1 The National Organization for Women was founded and later became the largest feminist group in the U.S. JANUARY 21 1 The Women’s March was held around the world to support gender equality and civil rights. Women's history Quizzes Featured Women's History Quiz: Famous Suffragettes How much do you know about suffragettes, the “soldiers in petticoats” who fought for women’s rights? Take the Quiz 19th Amendment & Women's Suffrage Women in the United States were finally granted the right to vote with the passage of the Nineteenth Amendment. How much do you know about this important event and the people involved? Test your knowledge with this quiz. Women's History: Female Activists From an undercover bunny to the founder of the Me Too movement, test your knowledge of the activists who’ve fought for women’s rights. Test your knowledge with this quiz. Women's History: U.S. Government Edition How many women have served in the Senate? Who was the first female to hold a cabinet post? Discover how much you know about women in the U.S. government in this quiz. Test your knowledge with this quiz. First Ladies of the U.S. They have been hostesses, helpers, advisers, gatekeepers, guardians, confidantes, and sometimes formidable powers behind the scenes. How much do you know about the first ladies of the United States? Women's History: Female Firsts Women have accomplished some fantastic feats in the course of history. Test your knowledge of some famous firsts for women. Women's history Journey Discover the rule breakers and their breakthrough moments. VIEW THE TIMELINES Supreme Court Cases Featured Case: Roe v. Wade Legal case in which the U.S. Supreme Court on January 22, 1973, ruled (7–2) that unduly restrictive state regulation of abortion is unconstitutional. Read more Muller v. State of Oregon U.S. Supreme Court case decided in 1908 that, although it appeared to promote the health and welfare of female workers, in fact led to additional protective legislation that was detrimental to equality in the workplace for years to come. Read more. Adkins v. Children’s Hospital U.S. Supreme Court case in which the Court invalidated a board established by Congress to set minimum wages for women workers in the District of Columbia. Congress in 1918 had authorized the Wage Board to ascertain and fix adequate wages for women employees in the nation’s capital. Read more. Meritor Savings Bank v. Vinson Case in which the U.S. Supreme Court on June 19, 1986, ruled (9–0) that sexual harassment that results in a hostile work environment is a violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which bans sex discrimination by employers. The Court also established criteria for judging such claims. Read more. Griswold v. State of Connecticut Legal case, decided by the U.S. Supreme Court on June 7, 1965, that found in favor of the constitutional right of married persons to use birth control. Read more. Join the Over the past 100 years, there have been a number of organizations that have been working across industries and countries, united around a singular mission of advancing girls and women. MORE INFORMATION COMING SOON The Women Meet the Women History-Making Politicians Country Leading Women About the Suffragist Movement Meet the Suffragists Suffrage Journey Feminism and Women’s Rights Key Associations Supreme Court Cases Important Dates Test Your Knowledge Famous Suffragettes Quiz Famous Women’s Firsts Quiz First Ladies of the United States Quiz Female Activists Quiz U.S. Government Quiz Nineteenth Amendment Quiz Results Polls Sign up for our weekly #WTFact newsletter and get our free e-book, 10 Badass Women in History Your Email Address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy. Thank you for subscribing! Get ready for 10 Badass Women in History, right in your inbox! Privacy Policy Terms of Use Copyright 2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. All rights reserved.