https://www.britannica.com/explore/savingearth/
Saving Earth | Encyclopedia Britannica
Pollution Biodiversity Loss Global Warming Water Crisis Causes and Solutions Quiz Take Action Visit Britannica.com › Start Your Free Trial › Visit Britannica.com › Start Your Free Trial › Pollution Biodiversity Loss Global Warming Water Crisis Causes and Solutions Quiz Take Action Search Close Search Search: Submit Menu Featured Problem The Pollution Problem Pollution occurs when any substance or any form of energy is added to the environment at a rate faster than it can be dispersed, diluted, decomposed, recycled, or stored in some harmless form. Learn what is a pollutant Know the Causes Consumption Manufacturing Mass Production The Problem of Urban Sprawl Eutrophication Human Population Know the Solutions Pollution Control Recycling Ethical Consumerism Compost Extended Producer Responsibility Hazardous-Waste Management Environmental Engineering Featured Problem The Problem of Biodiversity Loss Biodiversity loss is the decrease in the biodiversity within a species, an ecosystem, a given geographic area, or Earth as a whole. Read on Know the causes Deforestation Poaching Invasive Species Coral Bleaching Commercial Fishing Know the solutions Conservation: Preventing Biodiversity Loss Ecosystemic Approach Managing Endangered Species Endangered Species Act: Legislating Protection Featured Problem Global Warming and Public Policy Industrialized countries, emerging countries, and local and regional governments have tried to develop rules and regulations to avoid the worst consequences of global warming. Read on Know the Causes Fossil fuel Coal Deforestation Industrial Revolution Consumption Human Population Know the Solutions What Is Renewable Energy? Why Green Architecture Matters Carbon Sequestration Emissions Trading Solar Energy Wind Power Featured Problem Understanding the Water Scarcity Problem Water scarcity results from insufficient available freshwater resources to meet the human and environmental demands of a given area. Water scarcity is linked to human rights, as sufficient access to safe drinking water is a priority for global development. Read on Know the causes Water Pollution Eutrophication Fracking Irrigation and Drainage Industrial Revolution Know the solutions Desalination Rainwater Harvesting System The Power of Wetlands Contour Farming Ecological Restoration Featured Cause Human Population Population is the number of inhabitants occupying an area and is continually modified by births, immigrations, deaths, and emigrations. Read on General Causes Common-Pool Resources Tragedy of the Commons Industrial Revolution The Rise of the Machines: Pros and Cons of the Industrial Revolution Consumption Mass Production Ecological Footprint General Solutions Regulation Sustainability Environmental Policy Natural Resource Management Environmental Economics Continued: Other Instruments and Future Directions How Environmental Economics Places Value on the Environment Environmental Law Environmentalism Precautionary Principle Intergenerational Ethics Petroleum Fact or Fiction Petroleum: Fact or Fiction Quiz Rev up your mental engines and get your juices pumping in this high-octane petroleum quiz. Start Your Quiz Groundwater Quiz Groundwater Quiz You may know all about what happens to water aboveground, but what do you know about groundwater? Test your knowledge with this quiz. Start the Quiz Biodiversity loss Biodiversity Loss Quiz Do you know about the threats facing nonhuman life on Earth? Take this quiz to test your knowledge. Start the Quiz Climate change Climate Change Quiz Which gases play an important role in climate change? Test your knowledge of this "hot" topic with this quiz. Learn More › Take Action Take Action Learning about the problems, raising awareness, and getting involved are how movements gain traction and change is made. Learn More › Have a better diet Did you know you can help the environment by reducing the amount of meat you consume? Be a better consumer Did you know you can help the environment by buying more quality products that will last longer? Read our foreword Listen to our Extinction Series Britannica Presents Earth’s To-Do List for the 21st Century Learn about the major environmental problems facing our planet and what can be done about them. Since the end of the last ice age, humans have developed tools and machines and have modified the land for agriculture and long-term settlement. As the population has grown and new technologies have spread across cultures and continents, more and more of the planet’s resources have been pressed into serving the species. In the process, human activities have disrupted the natural order of the environment by depopulating and eliminating species and adding harmful chemicals to the air, water, and soil—activities that are changing the climate and the structure and function of ecosystems, as well as the biological communities they contain. Solving the critical environmental problems of global warming, water scarcity, pollution, and biodiversity loss are perhaps the greatest challenges of the 21st century. Will we rise to meet them? Know the Problems There are lots of problems in the world. Here are four major environmental problems this microsite will be looking at. Global Warming Collectively, the weight of human beings and their activities are changing the face of Earth. By the end of the 20th century, greenhouse gas emissions from human activities had become so great that they had begun to influence global and regional temperature and precipitation patterns. Find out how global warming affects climate and explore the different ways climate change is occurring and what has and could be done to manage the problem. Read more › Biodiversity Loss Nonhuman life on Earth is suffering greatly at human hands, and many species have already been lost forever due to our actions. Explore the major threats to biodiversity and learn what can be done to protect the planet’s precious plant and animal life. Read more › Water Crisis Of all the natural crises we humans face, the global water crisis is perhaps the one that poses the most immediate risk to human life and regional stability. Learn about the causes and effects of water scarcity at a global level, and about some of the strategies and solutions that can help us address it. Read more › Pollution Pollution is one of the most serious problems facing the planet, but it may be one of the easiest to overcome, since it relies largely on what we humans decide to create and release into the environment. Learn about various types of pollution, how each affects the environment, and how people and governments at all levels can work to limit, reduce, and eliminate the harmful effects of pollution. Read more › First Earth DaY – 1970 20 million Americans demonstrated for a healthy, sustainable environment in massive coast-to-coast rallies Earth Day 2000 5,000 Environmental groups in a record 184 countries reached out to hundreds of millions of people KNOWLEDGE IS POWER Learn about the contributing factors and big causes. Discover the solutions being explored today. Discover causes and solutions Know the Causes Human action has triggered a vast cascade of environmental problems that now threaten the continued ability of both natural and human systems to flourish. While it is difficult to distill the major drivers of these problems into a brief list, the following articles provide insight into some of the overarching causes behind many of our most pressing crises. Read about the Industrial Revolution, population growth, consumerism, and other big forces that have led to an Earth that needs saving. Human Population Population is the number of inhabitants occupying an area and is continually modified by births, immigrations, deaths, and emigrations. Read more › Common-Pool Resources Common-pool resources are resources made available to all. Some examples are fisheries, forests, and groundwater basins. Read more › Industrial Revolution With few exceptions, many of the world’s modern environmental problems began or were greatly exacerbated by the Industrial Revolution. Read more › Tragedy of the Commons The tragedy of the commons highlights the conflict between individual and collective rationality when it comes to the consumption of natural resources. Read more › The Rise of the Machines: Pros and Cons of the Industrial Revolution The Industrial Revolution is the period in which agrarian and handicraft economies shifted rapidly to industrial and machine-manufacturing-dominated ones. Read more › Consumption Consumption is the use of goods and services by households. Read more › Mass Production Mass production is the application of the principles of specialization, division of labour, and standardization of parts to the manufacture of goods. Read more › Ecological Footprint Ecological footprint is a measure of the demands made by people on our global natural resources and is one of the most widely used measures of humanity’s effect upon the environment. Read more › Show More Know the Solutions While it is easy to become discouraged by the current and projected impacts that these environmental problems have upon Earth’s biosphere, a number of solutions have emerged. Most involve changing the way we view the planet and its resources and leveraging regulatory and policy tools to establish sets of rules that incentivize the sustainable use of Earth’s resources. Environmental Policy Environmental policy is designed to prevent or reduce harmful effects of human activities on ecosystems. Read more › Environmental Law Environmental law is the field encompassing the principles, policies, directives, and regulations enacted and enforced by local, national, or international entities to regulate human treatment of the nonhuman world. Read more › Sustainability Sustainability is the long-term viability of a community, set of social institutions, or societal practice. Read more › Environmental Infrastructure Environmental infrastructure serve to protect human health and to safeguard environmental quality. Read more › Environmentalism Environmentalism is a political and ethical movement that seeks to improve and protect the quality of the natural environment. Read more › Ethical Consumerism Ethical consumerism is a form of political activism based on the premise that purchasers in markets consume not only goods but also, implicitly, the process used to produce them. Read more › Anticonsumerism Movement The anticonsumerism movement is a social ideology that decries the excessive purchasing and consumption of material possessions. Read more › Natural Resource Management Natural resource management is how societies manage the supply of or access to the natural resources they rely on for survival and development. Read more › Precautionary Principle The precautionary principle is an approach in policy making that legitimizes the adoption of preventative measures to address potential risks to the public or environment associated with certain activities or policies. Read more › Regulation A regulation is, in government, a rule or mechanism that limits, steers, or otherwise controls social behaviour. Read more › What Is Environmental Economics? Environmental economics is a subdiscipline of economics that applies the values and tools of mainstream macroeconomics and microeconomics to allocate environmental resources more efficiently. Read more › How Environmental Economics Places Value on the Environment Economists have long tried to accurately determine the value of environmental goods to society. Read more › Environmental Economics Continued: Other Instruments and Future Directions Once the market inefficiency relating to a particular environmental good is understood, policy makers can correct for the inefficiency by employing any number of instruments. Read more › Show More Test Your Knowledge Fact or Fiction? How much do you know about the various environmental problems that face you, your community, and your planet? Test your knowledge. View all quizzes CLIMATE CHANGE Which gases play an important role in climate change? What percentage of scientists agree that humans contribute to this process? Test your knowledge of this “hot” topic with this quiz. ECOSYSTEMS There are a lot of ecosystems in the world. How much do you know about the different types of ecosystems?iption BIODIVERSITY LOSS Do you know about the threats facing nonhuman life on Earth? Take this quiz to test your knowledge. Be EMPOWERED Take Action The issues facing Earth are big, but imagine the difference we could make if we all took steps to address them. Learn about the small but important changes you can make in your daily life to reduce your greenhouse gas emissions, save water, help wildlife, and limit pollution. Get Started Causes and Solutions Biodiversity Loss Global Warming Water Crisis Pollution Test Your Knowledge Get Social with us Follow us on Linkedin Like us on Facebook Tweet us Britannica.com Advertise Sign up for Newsletters Sign up for Free Trial Sign up for our weekly Demystified newsletter and get our Everyday Environmentalism e-book. Your Email Address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy. Thank you for subscribing! Privacy Policy Terms of Use Copyright 2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. All rights reserved.