https://www.britannica.com/explore/space/
SpaceNext50 | Encyclopedia Britannica
Space Race Meet the Explorers Space Business Quizzes Videos Polls Definitions Facts and Stats Visit Britannica.com › Start Your Free Trial › Definitions Facts and Stats Visit Britannica.com › Start Your Free Trial › Space Race Meet the Explorers Space Business Quizzes Videos Polls Search Close Search Search: Submit Menu The New Space Race is On The New Space Race The new space race isn't between a couple of countries but among several players, particularly the fast-growing economies of China, India, and Japan. See what countries are in› Chandrayaan Chandrayaan Chandrayaan-1 is an Indian lunar space probe that used reflected radiation to prospect for various elements, minerals, and ice. Learn more about Indian space probe After the Moon Landing After the Moon Landing Timeline What happened after the Moon landing and after Apollo 11? What steps did the world take? View the Timeline Architect of Chinese space program Qian Xuesen Qian Xuesen was a Chinese engineer and research scientist widely recognized as the “father of Chinese aerospace” for his role in establishing China’s ballistic missile program. Discover this engineer pioneer Paving the way for women Valentina Tereshkova Valentina Tereshkova, Soviet cosmonaut, was the first woman to travel into space. Read about the first First Chinese in Space Yang Liwei Yang Liwei is a Chinese astronaut and the first person sent into space by the Chinese space program. Read more about the first from China Extraordinary Leaps SpaceX SpaceX is an American aerospace company founded in 2002 that helped usher in the era of commercial spaceflight. Learn more What is Space Tourism Space Tourism Space tourism is recreational space travel, either on established government-owned vehicles or on a growing number of vehicles fielded by private companies. Would you go into space What it means to send a signal Satellite Telecommunications Engineers developed a design for a satellite that would operate in geostationary orbit. Read about its origin Space Exploration Space Exploration Quiz Was Australia the last continent to be discovered? Who was the first human to orbit Earth? From treks through the South Pole to launches into space, test your knowledge of human exploration in this quiz. Take Your Best Shot Moon Vs Asteroid This or That? Moon vs. Asteroid So you’ve got the planets down pat—let’s see if you know your moons. Are these astronomical bodies moons or asteroids? What do you know? Small Step, Giant Leap Small Step, Giant Leap: Fact or Fiction? Is the Moon the only object in the solar system to have craters? Take a "giant leap"—or a "small step"—and learn more about the Moon in this quiz. Test your knowledge Did you know? An estimated 650 Million people watched Armstrong’s televised image and heard his voice describe the event as he took “…one small step for a man, one giant leap for mankind” on July 20, 1969. Watch The New Space Race Video-SpaceRace From India to China, the space race is expanding. Take a few minutes to explore videos from around the globe. Watch on Watch Moon Landing History Video-Moonlanding Watch history unfold. This page highlights stories told in video from Apollo 11 Liftoff to faking the moon landing. Watch on From 1969 to 2019 to beyond Fifty years ago, the world watched in wonder as the Apollo 11 astronauts became the first humans to set foot on another world. To mark the anniversary of humanity’s first steps on the Moon, Encyclopaedia Britannica will start a yearlong journey to examine our past, present, and future in space. Our mission is to feed the world’s curiosity about space. We know that what we know may only be the tip of the iceberg. We know that there’s so much more to explore. What lies in space, and why are we so fascinated with it? What can it teach us? Who has the right to explore space? Will private money outspend public money? Will the nations of the world be able to coexist peacefully in space? From the race to the Moon to space stewardship… We explore subjects ranging from whether space tourism will become widespread to how spaceflight will be a part of the global economy in the mid-21st century. With the help of our readers, we’ll answer why space interests us so much. What is our fascination with space? Is space a global story of human frontiers? What potential does space hold? Is our future, and maybe even our survival, truly out there? These are some of the questions that will drive SpaceNext50 over the next year. Space Race Space Business Space Prediction Space Stewardship Space Race: Old and New What propelled us to look to the Moon? What ignited the inspiration and the dream? What helped us to mobilize in the space race? Space Race in a snapshot Featured Quiz Planets and the Earth’s Moon Quiz What’s the relationship between distant planets and supposed extraterrestrial life? What is our solar system’s hottest planet? Strap on your thinking caps—and seat belts—and test your astronomy knowledge in this quiz. Test Your Knowledge Featured Quiz Space Travel: Fact or Fiction? Was Mariner 1 the first spacecraft to photograph Earth from the Moon? From space shuttles to space stations, navigate the outer limits in this quiz. Test your knowledge Featured Quiz Brightest Star in the Solar System Quiz This giant ball of energy regulates our perspective of time, but how much do you really know about the Sun? Turn on your mental lightbulbs and find out in this quiz. Test your knowledge Did You Know? 62 Space starts 62 miles (100 km) above Earth. 5 Countries planning to send missions to the Moon 6 People in space right now 8 Orbiters and rovers currently working around and on Mars See all amazing space stats See the latest news from space Coronavirus hinders Space Force expansion U.S. Space Force commander Gen. Jay Raymond has said that the coronavirus has postponed plans to double the Force’s size. A second officer was planned to be sworn in. View Article NASA selects SpaceX for Artemis NASA has selected SpaceX to deliver cargo to the Lunar Gateway, a Moon-orbiting space station that will be part of the Artemis project. View Article Space Force launches first satellite Space Force launched its first satellite, a communications satellite, from Cape Canaveral. View Article Europe suspends four space probes The European Space Agency suspended the operations of four space probes to reduce staff during the pandemic. The affected missions are Cluster, Solar Orbiter, ExoMars Trace Gas Orbiter, and Mars Express. View Article See all news Special Content 100Women Earth’s To-Do List World War II Race to the Moon Moon Landing Timeline Moon Landing : Just the Facts After Apollo, What? Space Exploration Meet the People Space Race Polls Space Prediction Space Stewardship Space Business Test Your Knowledge This or That? Moon vs. Asteroid Space: Fact or Fiction? Stars: Explosions in Space Quiz Sign up for our newsletter Your Email Address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy. Thank you for subscribing! Privacy Policy Terms of Use Copyright 2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. All rights reserved.