https://www.britannica.com/stories/companion
Companions | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Britannica Companions Health & Medicine How Do Face Masks Control the Spread of Disease? Health & Medicine How Does A Ventilator Work? Health & Medicine Questions About COVID-19 Answered Health & Medicine COVID-19 Terminology Explained Health & Medicine Who Can Declare a Pandemic and What Criteria Are Required for an Outbreak to Be Called a Pandemic? Health & Medicine Is There a Cure for Coronavirus? Science When Was the Periodic Table Invented? Science What did Jan Ingenhousz discover about photosynthesis? History How did Patrice Lumumba die? History What were the circumstances that surrounded Roald Amundsen’s death? Technology Did Jules Verne Invent the Submarine? Philosophy & Religion What Is Jeremy Bentham’s “Auto-Icon”? Philosophy & Religion How did St. Francis Xavier shape Catholicism? History Why did Joseph McCarthy’s influence decline? History How did Joseph McCarthy’s anticommunist rhetoric impact the LGBTQ+ community? Literature & Language How did Albert Camus die? History Did Joseph McCarthy cause the Red Scare of the 1950s? History What was Alfred like as a governor of his kingdom? History What were Alfred’s military achievements? History Was Jesse Owens snubbed by Adolf Hitler at the Berlin Olympics? History What was Hadrian’s architectural legacy? History How did Greek culture influence Hadrian? History What was Hadrian’s relationship with his Jewish subjects? Literature & Language Was there a feud between William Faulkner and Ernest Hemingway? History What was the importance of literacy and learning to Alfred’s rule? Literature & Language What jobs did Sir Walter Scott have? Literature & Language What were Sir Walter Scott’s influences? Literature & Language What did Sir Walter Scott write? History What was Ulysses S. Grant’s policy regarding Reconstruction? History How was Ulysses S. Grant involved in the Civil War? History What was Ulysses S. Grant's relationship with the Lakota Indians? Pop Culture Who killed Tupac Shakur? History Attendees of Martin Luther King, Jr.’s Funeral Technology History of Technology Timeline Philosophy & Religion Roman Catholic Saints Music When Dylan “Went Electric” View More Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!