https://www.britannica.com/stories/spotlight
Spotlight | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Spotlight Health & Medicine When Was the Last Pandemic? Health & Medicine Why Is It Important to Know the Incubation Period of a Disease? History Was Elizabeth I a popular queen? History What was Queen Elizabeth I’s personal life like? History What was Queen Elizabeth I’s relationship to religion in England? History What were the biggest issues facing England during Queen Elizabeth I’s reign? History How did Elizabeth I come to be queen of England? History How was Prohibition enforced? History How did people get around Prohibition? History What were the effects of Prohibition? History How long did Prohibition last? History What led to Prohibition? Philosophy & Religion Our Lady of Fátima Sports & Recreation The Origin of the Winter Olympics Sports & Recreation Olympics: Boon or Curse? Sports & Recreation Olympics: The Genetics of Success Society Feminism: From Ancient Rome to the Women’s March Philosophy & Religion Hanukkah, the Festival of Lights Animals Dwarfism in Cats: It’s Only Cute ‘til Someone Gets Hurt Literature & Language World Poetry Day Society Happy Halloween Science The Fermi Paradox: Where Are All the Aliens? History The Disappearance of Amelia Earhart Society Holi: Festival of Colors History The Bizarre Posthumous Journey of Einstein's Brain History Nuclear Exclusion Zones Arts & Culture Art Restoration: Beyond Canvas Science Spotting a Supercontinent: How Pangea Was Discovered History Pirate Week Literature & Language The Eternal Legacy of Treasure Island History From Pirate to Admiral: The Tale of Barbarossa History Black Pirates and the Tale of Black Caesar Philosophy & Religion Too Good to Rot? Saints with Incorrupt Bodies Sports & Recreation Are You Ready for Some Fantasy Football? Science The Solar Eclipse That Made Albert Einstein a Science Celebrity History The Mechanical Turk: AI Marvel or Parlor Trick? View More Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!