https://www.britannica.com/videos/Philosophy-Religion
Philosophy & Religion Video Browse | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Videos Philosophy & Religion Philosophy & Religion Humans have long pondered not only how we came to be, but also why we came to be. The earliest Greek philosophers focused their attention upon the origin and nature of the physical world; later philosophers have theorized about the nature of knowledge, truth, good and evil, love, friendship, and much more. Thus, philosophy involves a methodical assessment of any and all aspects of human existence and experience. The realms of philosophy and religion have sometimes intersected in conducting inquiries such as these. As with philosophy, the study of religion underscores how humankind has long speculated about its origins. The possibility of a higher being (or beings) to which livings things owe their existence has long captived human thought. Many religions also offer their own views on the nature of good and evil, and they may prescribe guidelines and judgment on different kinds of human behavior. Discern the real St. Nicholas, bishop of Myra, from the gift-giving Santa Claus of yuletide Examine what is known about ancient Athenian philosopher Socrates from Plato's dialogues and other sources Consider the Bible's Old Testament as a literary masterpiece dramatized by paintings, music, and sculpture Explore Eastern Orthodox monasteries run by isolated monks in the Balkans' mountainous interior Watch The Humanities: A Bridge to Ourselves to understand how humankind discovers itself Explore the history behind the Islamic shrine Dome of the Rock on the Temple Mount in Jerusalem Attempt to define the scope of the humanities from the dawn of humankind to the Golden Gate Bridge Uncover the exciting lives of philosophers from Socrates and Hypatia to Martin Heidegger and A.J. Ayer Bahia: Candomblé Analyze the Aristotelian view on ethics through the ancient Greek philosopher's writings with Mortimer Adler Follow the Islam faith's path from the prophet Muhammad's founding to the modern practice of the five pillars questions and answers about Thomas Hobbes Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!