https://www.britannica.com/videos/Lifestyles-Social-Issues
Lifestyles & Social Issues Video Browse | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Videos Lifestyles & Social Issues Lifestyles & Social Issues It's easy enough to agree that human beings all around the world have certain basic requirements that must be fulfilled in order to ensure their individual and collective well-being. History has shown us, however, that it's not so easy to form societies or communities that fulfill these requirements for all members. The fight over human and civil rights has persisted for hundreds of years and remains alive today, both within the borders of nations and on an international scale. It has led to large-scale social movements and reforms concerning issues such as suffrage, slavery, women's rights, racial discrimination, environmentalism, gay rights, and more. Analyze how the U.S. Supreme Court changed under Pres. Franklin Roosevelt and learn about its role in the civil rights movement apartheid in Cape Town and Robben Island Learn how Christian historian Sextus Africanus and Roman Emperor Constantine I determined Christmas's date Discover why Americans eat turkey on Thanksgiving and what the Pilgrims ate with the Wampanoag Indians Learn how pumpkin carving came to be a Halloween tradition forged by Celtic and Roman Catholic roots Take a quick lesson in University of Oxford history and tour its collection of colleges and schools Witness the breadth of the Occupy Wall Street protest movement as civil disobedience spread across the U.S. Discover how daisies and other flowers came to stand for nonviolent protests along with psychedelic drugs Celebrate the summer solstice with the Swedes in the Scandinavian Midsommar holiday maypole tradition Travel back to U.S. Prohibition and watch President Franklin Roosevelt sign the beer bill into law Einsiedeln, Switzerland: Carnival parade Easter Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!