https://www.britannica.com/videos/Politics-Law-Government
Politics, Law & Government Video Browse | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Videos Politics, Law & Government Politics, Law & Government The world today is divided territorially into more than 190 countries, each of which possesses a national government that claims to exercise sovereignty and seeks to compel obedience to its will by its citizens. Governments can be classified in any number of ways. For example, they might be classified by the number of rulers, thus distinguishing government by one (as in a monarchy or a tyranny) from government by the few (in an aristocracy or oligarchy) and from government by the many (as in a democracy). Governments can also be classified by mode of succession; for example, ascension to governmental leadership may follow the rules of hereditary succession, or it may be determined through elections or by force. Governments also vary in terms of the laws and rules of conduct that each political entity follows. Study the end of the Cold War and start of the Persian Gulf War under George H.W. Bush's administration Discover how President Buchanan reacted to the Dred Scott decision and John Brown's assault on Harpers Ferry Observe how former president Garfield thwarted the spoils system before being assassinated by a Stalwart Learn how the U.S. Supreme Court upholds freedom of speech and religion and the right to due process Learn about the United States' sixth president, John Quincy Adams, on the National Republican Party Analyze Jimmy Carter's shortcomings as U.S. president and his Nobel Prize-winning humanitarian work Study the life and career of World War II general and former U.S. president Dwight D. Eisenhower Analyze with Hubert Humphrey the U.S. Congress's founding and role in America's system of checks and balances Interview Neal Spelce who reported live from the University of Texas at Austin during the 1966 mass shooting the Munich massacre Examine how Allied powers dismembered the Central Powers in World War I treaty but failed to prevent World War II U.S. Pres. Barack Obama Study how Gerald Ford stewarded a post-Watergate United States amid economic inflation and high unemployment Discover the urbanization of South American cities such as Lima, Santiago, Bogota, and Valparaíso Study the U.S. Judicial branch and learn about the checks and balances to which it is subjected Hillary Clinton Examine the roles of communism, fascism, and the Great Depression in the Spanish Civil War Learn how Switzerland's neutrality in past European wars and gold trade made it a secure banking centre Examine Chester Arthur's life and tenure in office, the Pendleton Act, and the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882 Learn about the Whig Party's final U.S. president, Millard Fillmore, and the Compromise of 1850 Listen to former vice president Hubert Humphrey examine the personalities of memorable U.S. presidents Learn how the names Morgan, Rockefeller, Chase, and Mellon became synonymous with New York City's Wall Street Examine President Nixon's threefold plan to unilaterally de-escalate the Vietnam War 1960 Democratic U.S. presidential primaries Ulbricht, Walter Follow feminists' footsteps as women achieved the right to vote in countries around the world Examine how Chief Justice John Marshall and his successor Roger Taney differed on states' rights issues Follow a bill from a congressional committee to being signed into law by the president of the United States Review how the U.S. Supreme Court works and see how it serves as the protector of the people's rights Tucson shooting: Obama speaking at memorial for victims of Tucson shooting, 2011 Watch West German Chancellor Adenauer greet French President de Gaulle to forge diplomatic ties after WWII Listen to Janny Scott discuss her biography A Singular Woman: The Untold Story of Barack Obama's Mother Study the powers granted to the head of the U.S. executive branch and how to avoid falling into a dictatorship Hear former vice president Hubert Humphrey discuss checks and balances on the president of the United States Learn how the September 11th terrorist attacks and the Iraq War defined George W. Bush's presidency Examine the life of the United States' first vice president and second president, John Adams Pay tribute New York City's World Trade Center towers and the lives lost in the September 11 attacks Uncover Secret Service codenames for U.S. presidents from John F. Kennedy to Barack Obama Study how Teddy Roosevelt leveraged federal power over mine owners to earn a victory for labourers Take a tour of the Executive Mansion guided by First Lady Nancy Reagan and discover how the White House serves as a symbol of the continuity of democracy in the United States Listen to Hubert Humphrey examine the power wielded by U.S. presidents Washington, Lincoln, and Kennedy See how Kennedy emerged from a crowded field to become the Democratic Party's 1960 presidential nominee Peru: economy Learn from Neal Spelce the response to the mass shooting at the University of Texas at Austin in 1966 Learn how Civil War vet Ulysses Grant won the presidency but struggled with a country amid Reconstruction Explore how the Constitution of the United States of America was drafted in the wake of Shays's Rebellion Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!