https://www.britannica.com/videos/Entertainment-Pop-Culture
Entertainment & Pop Culture Video Browse | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Videos Entertainment & Pop Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Entertainment and leisure activities have been a part of all cultures in one form or another since the ancient times, whether the activity in question involved participating in a dance performance, attending a Broadway show, going to a music festival, or watching a movie. makui Rock and Roll Hall of Fame; Franklin, Aretha; Joplin, Janis Thanksgiving dinner; cooking “Krazy Kat-Bugologist” Observe Polynesian culture through dance performances telling legends of ancient South Seas people and gods puk truffle; aroma candy making Visit a replica of the Globe Theatre where Shakespeare's plays were originally performed in Bankside, London break dancing Study film-making techniques employed in an adaptation of John Millington Synge's The Well of the Saints reggae Griffith, Andy: in “A Wife for Andy” episode of “The Andy Griffith Show,” 1963 Study the settlement of the American South and the evolution of music in the region from gospel to country Explore the differences between African and Western music and learn how rap can be seen as a fusion of the two Barnum, P. T.: discussion of P.T. Barnum's American Museum in New York City Use Wilbur Scoville's subjective test to determine a pepper's capsaicin content and spiciness Marley, Bob potato Jackie Chan receiving an honorary Oscar Watch the dramatic irony unfold in a film adaptation of O. Henry's classic short story “The Gift of the Magi” baking cookies electric guitar Van Dyke, Dick: “The Dick Van Dyke Show,” episode 31, 1962 Examine how to direct a film adaption of Walter van Tilburg Clark's short story “The Portable Phonograph” Go inside a Globe Theatre model with Maynard Mack to examine features of the Elizabethan playhouse “McLintock!” Handel, George Frideric: aria tabla A look at France's historic restaurant culture and what sets its cuisine apart from the rest of the world Witness the complicated interplay between the damper, hammer, wippen, and other grand-piano components behind every keystroke frame drum Seabrooke, Georgette Learn how ethnomusicologists study a society's traditional music to better understand that society Discover the art of mime from Marcel Marceau and his character Bip in Pantomime: The Language of the Heart scene from Elmer Gantry Ian McKellen in a scene from Richard III Merchant of Venice, The Follow a director as he films a motion picture adaption of Eugène Ionesco's The New Tenant jigsaw puzzle Learn from an affineur how carbon-dioxide-producing propionic acid bacteria blow holes in Swiss cheese “Dr. Kildare's Strange Case” Learn about the Brazilian berimbau's African roots and how the stringed instrument is played Explore the differences between the instruments and scales used in Chinese and Indonesian music traditions Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!