https://www.britannica.com/videos/Visual-Arts
Visual Arts Video Browse | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Videos Visual Arts Visual Arts These are the arts that meet the eye and evoke an emotion through an expression of skill and imagination. They include the most ancient forms, such as painting and drawing, and the arts that were born thanks to the development of technology, like sculpture, printmaking, photography, and installation art, the latter a combination of multiple creative expressions. Though beauty is in the eye of the beholder, different eras in art history have had their own principles to define beauty, from the richly ornamented taste of the Baroque to the simple, utilitarian style of the Prairie School. Explore the Basilica Cistern that stored water in case of drought or war for former Constantinople Zeus, Statue of Revere the exterior of the French Gothic architectural achievement Duomo di Milano in Italy Discern between Naskhī and Maghribi scripts and learn why a qalam is a preferred tool for calligraphy Marvel at the lengths gone to discover the identity of Leonardo's subject for his Renaissance masterpiece photography: Harry Callahan discussing his start in photography Learn how pollution from industrialization in Europe damaged the limestone of Cologne Cathedral Row down the Loire River to behold the Gothic cathedral of Orléans and Loire valley and its historic châteaux Admire the Alhambra's coloured tiles, carved stucco and wood, and calligraphy in Grenada, Spain Athens, Greece; Acropolis: Propylaeum; Temple of Athena Nike; Erechtheum Behold the Gothic-architecture marvel Sainte-Croix Cathedral in Orléans, France drawing a shark Learn why Adolf Hitler commanded Nazi troops to seize The Adoration of the Mystic Lamb McCormick, Robert R.; Tribune Tower See how Petrarch's return to Greek and Roman authors broke with the Middle Ages and sparked the Renaissance Speyer Cathedral photography, history of; Qing dynasty Mayne, Thom: Mayne discussing his design of the San Francisco Federal Building, 2008 John Szarkowski discussing the work of Ansel Adams See how Vincent van Gogh's Post-Impressionism influenced Fauves and German Expressionists Discover how Michelangelo came to carve the David from a badly blocked piece of Carrara marble Siskind, Aaron Gogh, Vincent van: doctor's note concerning his severed ear Learn how Filippo Brunelleschi, Leon Battista Alberti, and Donato Bramante shaped Renaissance architecture Study detail of Michelangelo's Pietà portraying the Virgin Mary holding Jesus Christ after crucifixion Explore the life of Italian painter, architect, engineer, and humanist Leonardo da Vinci Behold the Gothic-style House of Lords and the House of Commons constituting the Houses of Parliament See how Renaissance man Leonardo da Vinci learned from Andrea del Verrocchio of the earlier Florentine school Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!