https://www.britannica.com/videos/this-week-in-history
This Week in History Video Browse | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Videos This Week in History This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. This Week in History: March 2–8 This Week in History: March 9–15 This Week in History: March 16–22 This Week in History: March 24–28 This Week in History: March 30–April 4 This Week in History: April 6–12 This Week in History: April 13–19 This Week in History: April 21–26 This Week in History: July 24–28 This Week in History: August 26–30 This Week in History: September 1–4 This Week in History: September 11–15 This Week in History: September 16–21 This Week in History: September 23–26 This Week in History: October 1–4 This Week in History: October 7–11 This Week in History: October 14–19 This Week in History: October 21–24 This Week in History: October 29–31 This Week in History: November 4–7 This Week in History: November 11–14 This Week in History: November 18–22 This Week in History: November 26–30 This Week in History: December 1–7 This Week in History: December 9–14 Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!