https://www.britannica.com/videos/demystified
Demystified Videos Video Browse | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Videos Demystified Videos Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. Discover why Americans eat turkey on Thanksgiving and what the Pilgrims ate with the Wampanoag Indians Is Pluto a planet? What's the difference between a turtle and a tortoise? What would happen if all the bees died? Is light pollution really pollution? Did Marie-Antoinette really say “Let them eat cake?” When did women start wearing pants in the U.S.? Discover what Ptolemy V Epiphanes thought was necessary to have copied in Greek and three Egyptian scripts Learn the difference between weather and climate and how small climate changes can increase natural disasters Master the difference between poisonous and venomous while discussing black mambas, garter snakes, and toads Discover what astronomical forces engender the phenomena of solar and lunar eclipses Discover how a meteoroid turns into a brightly lit meteor before falling to Earth's ground as a meteorite Learn how Christian historian Sextus Africanus and Roman Emperor Constantine I determined Christmas's date Demystify the confusion surrounding Great Britain, the United Kingdom, Scotland, Wales, and Ireland Learn about the World Meteorological Organization's rules for naming hurricanes and typhoons Use cosmic ray detectors to explore hidden chambers within the Great Pyramids of Giza Was Santa Claus a real person? Why is a baker's dozen thirteen? Why is the Mona Lisa so famous? Is spontaneous human combustion real? Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!