https://www.britannica.com/biographies
Biographies browse | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Biographies Featured Hirohito emperor of Japan Hirohito, emperor of Japan from 1926 until his death… William Randolph Hearst American newspaper publisher William Randolph Hearst, American newspaper publisher… Michelle Pfeiffer American actress Michelle Pfeiffer, American actress, noted for her… Alfred Hitchcock English-born American director Alfred Hitchcock, English-born American motion-picture… Browse Categories arts, visual TitianItalian painter View People Known for painting architecture sculpture dance photography printmaking View All arts, visual Biographies education Carolus LinnaeusSwedish botanist View People Known for education reference work higher education elementary education special education professional education View All education Biographies entertainment Orson WellesAmerican actor, director and writer View People Known for acting musical composition television singing directing (movie and theater) instrumentalists View All entertainment Biographies history and society Mark TwainAmerican writer View People Known for government army prime minister Nobel Prize (all) president journalism View All history and society Biographies literature John MiltonEnglish poet View People Known for poetry novel dramatic literature short story criticism essay View All literature Biographies philosophy and religion PlatoGreek philosopher View People Known for Christianity Roman Catholicism philosophy theology Judaism Islam View All philosophy and religion Biographies sciences Noam ChomskyAmerican linguist View People Known for medicine physics mathematics chemistry exploration astronomy View All sciences Biographies sports and recreation LeBron JamesAmerican basketball player View People Known for baseball football, gridiron athletics boxing basketball football (soccer) View All sports and recreation Biographies technology Johannes KeplerGerman astronomer View People Known for invention industrial development manufacturing engineering computer science printing View All technology Biographies Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!