https://www.britannica.com/explore/savingearth/covid-19/
COVID-19 | Saving Earth | Encyclopedia Britannica
Pollution Biodiversity Loss Global Warming Water Crisis Causes and Solutions Quiz Take Action Visit Britannica.com › Start Your Free Trial › Visit Britannica.com › Start Your Free Trial › Pollution Biodiversity Loss Global Warming Water Crisis Causes and Solutions Quiz Take Action Search Close Search Search: Submit Menu Featured Problem The Pollution Problem Pollution occurs when any substance or any form of energy is added to the environment at a rate faster than it can be dispersed, diluted, decomposed, recycled, or stored in some harmless form. Learn what is a pollutant Know the Causes Consumption Manufacturing Mass Production The Problem of Urban Sprawl Eutrophication Human Population Know the Solutions Pollution Control Recycling Ethical Consumerism Compost Extended Producer Responsibility Hazardous-Waste Management Environmental Engineering Featured Problem The Problem of Biodiversity Loss Biodiversity loss is the decrease in the biodiversity within a species, an ecosystem, a given geographic area, or Earth as a whole. Read on Know the causes Deforestation Poaching Invasive Species Coral Bleaching Commercial Fishing Know the solutions Conservation: Preventing Biodiversity Loss Ecosystemic Approach Managing Endangered Species Endangered Species Act: Legislating Protection Featured Problem Global Warming and Public Policy Industrialized countries, emerging countries, and local and regional governments have tried to develop rules and regulations to avoid the worst consequences of global warming. Read on Know the Causes Fossil fuel Coal Deforestation Industrial Revolution Consumption Human Population Know the Solutions What Is Renewable Energy? Why Green Architecture Matters Carbon Sequestration Emissions Trading Solar Energy Wind Power Featured Problem Understanding the Water Scarcity Problem Water scarcity results from insufficient available freshwater resources to meet the human and environmental demands of a given area. Water scarcity is linked to human rights, as sufficient access to safe drinking water is a priority for global development. Read on Know the causes Water Pollution Eutrophication Fracking Irrigation and Drainage Industrial Revolution Know the solutions Desalination Rainwater Harvesting System The Power of Wetlands Contour Farming Ecological Restoration Featured Cause Human Population Population is the number of inhabitants occupying an area and is continually modified by births, immigrations, deaths, and emigrations. Read on General Causes Common-Pool Resources Tragedy of the Commons Industrial Revolution The Rise of the Machines: Pros and Cons of the Industrial Revolution Consumption Mass Production Ecological Footprint General Solutions Regulation Sustainability Environmental Policy Natural Resource Management Environmental Economics Continued: Other Instruments and Future Directions How Environmental Economics Places Value on the Environment Environmental Law Environmentalism Precautionary Principle Intergenerational Ethics Petroleum Fact or Fiction Petroleum: Fact or Fiction Quiz Rev up your mental engines and get your juices pumping in this high-octane petroleum quiz. Start Your Quiz Groundwater Quiz Groundwater Quiz You may know all about what happens to water aboveground, but what do you know about groundwater? Test your knowledge with this quiz. Start the Quiz Biodiversity loss Biodiversity Loss Quiz Do you know about the threats facing nonhuman life on Earth? Take this quiz to test your knowledge. Start the Quiz Climate change Climate Change Quiz Which gases play an important role in climate change? Test your knowledge of this "hot" topic with this quiz. Learn More › Take Action Take Action Learning about the problems, raising awareness, and getting involved are how movements gain traction and change is made. Learn More › Have a better diet Did you know you can help the environment by reducing the amount of meat you consume? Be a better consumer Did you know you can help the environment by buying more quality products that will last longer? Covid-19 Your questions about COVID-19 answered Through illness, community and national lockdowns, and economic downturn, the COVID-19 pandemic has upended the lives of millions of people worldwide. At Britannica we have been fielding questions about the pandemic from readers, and we’ve had a few questions of our own. Here are answers to some of our readers’ and our own questions about the COVID-19 pandemic. READ ANSWERS What is the difference between infection and incubation window? Read What is the difference between an epidemic and a pandemic? Read answer What is the difference between Influenza and Covid-19 Read more Covid 19 Terminology Explained Read more Previous Next From a Britannica Partner, HudsonAlpha Institute for Biotechnology Key Resources World Health Organization State health Departments Johns Hopkins Resource Center U.S. government resources U.S. Treasury Federal Emergency Management Agency Federal Trade Commission Menu Key Resources World Health Organization State health Departments Johns Hopkins Resource Center U.S. government resources U.S. Treasury Federal Emergency Management Agency Federal Trade Commission What is Coronavirus? Where are we on the curve? COVId-19 Outcomes COVID-19 Timeline And Symptoms Vaccines Spread and prevention Understanding Pandemics A pandemic is an outbreak of infectious disease that occurs over a wide geographical area and that is of high prevalence. A pandemic generally affects a significant proportion of the world’s population, usually over the course of several months. Throughout history, humanity has survived several pandemics. While this global health crisis continues to evolve, it can be useful to look to the past to help us understand our possible future. What can previous pandemics teach us about our response today? Previous Next Britannica Editors are answering some common questions about COVID-19. In times like these, knowledge and information is powerful. If you have a question or would like to view other questions Britannica readers have been asking, please visit our new Question and Answer Platform. ASK YOUR QUESTION What are some myths that have been spread about the coronavirus pandemic? Misinformation about COVID-19 is dangerous, and the falsehoods related to COVID-19 raise serious public health and safety. Read more Are there any positive stories or news during our global health crisis? Although it may feel like all the news is bad regarding the COVID-19 pandemic, there are a few positive stories to share. For example, efforts to relieve hospitals’ shortages of masks, respirators, and other supplies have come from some of the most unlikely places. Read more How do you calculate incubation period, And what virus has the shortest incubation period? The incubation period for a disease can be determined in several ways. Generally, however, it is calculated as the time from a known exposure incident to the infectious agent until onset of symptoms. Read more Sparking national conversations From national emergencies to government aid and statewide curfews, COVID-19 has changed the national conversation as we know it. It has provoked a global discussion and questions about our healthcare systems, how we diagnose, how we work, how we educate, and so much more. How fast can the economy actually recover from COVID-19? Read more on Beyond What is the difference between self-quarantine and self-isolation Read answer on Beyond COVID-19 Advice from a family therapist Read more from Britannica's Parents Resource What other former US presidents have led during times of similar national or global crisis? Read more on Beyond What previous leaders and their response most inspired their countries during a crisis? Read answer on Beyond Did previous pandemics foster better global relationships? Or did it draw sharper boundaries? Read more What is martial law, and how does it work? Read more When was the last time a national emergency was called? Read answer on Beyond What were some of the world's most devastating financial crises? Read more How to talk to young children about the coronavirus? Read here When was the last time schools were closed in the U.S. for a health crisis? Read answer on Beyond What are emergency powers, and when did they emerge? Read more COVID-19 emergency resources now available to every school SIGN UP FOR FREE RESOURCES Over the past two months, Britannica has been working with our partner schools across the world who are grappling with COVID-19 school closures and student absences and making swift plans to keep their communities safe. As schools across the United States implement and prepare for school closures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in their communities, we want to ensure that you are aware of the free emergency support and virtual-learning classroom resources Britannica has made available to every school. Causes and Solutions Biodiversity Loss Global Warming Water Crisis Pollution Test Your Knowledge Get Social with us Follow us on Linkedin Like us on Facebook Tweet us Britannica.com Advertise Sign up for Newsletters Sign up for Free Trial Sign up for our weekly Demystified newsletter and get our Everyday Environmentalism e-book. Your Email Address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy. Thank you for subscribing! Privacy Policy Terms of Use Copyright 2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. All rights reserved.