https://www.britannica.com/topic/presidency-of-the-United-States-of-America
Presidency of the United States of America | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents Presidency of the United States of America United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction Duties of the office Historical development Postrevolutionary period The presidency in the 19th century Changes in the 20th century Selecting a president The evolution of the nomination process “King Caucus” The convention system Post-1968 reforms The modern nomination process Deciding to run The money game The primary and caucus season Presidential nominating conventions The general election campaign Presidents of the United States United States presidential election results Presidency of the United States of America United States government Written By: Michael Levy Forrest McDonald See Article History Alternative Title: president of the United States of America Listen to Hubert Humphrey examine the power wielded by U.S. presidents Washington, Lincoln, and KennedyHubert Humphrey outlines some of the most dramatic ways in which American presidents have used the powers of their office.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article Presidency of the United States of America, chief executive office of the United States. In contrast to many countries with parliamentary forms of government, where the office of president, or head of state, is mainly ceremonial, in the United States the president is vested with great authority and is arguably the most powerful elected official in the world. The nation’s founders originally intended the presidency to be a narrowly restricted institution. They distrusted executive authority because their experience with colonial governors had taught them that executive power was inimical to liberty, because they felt betrayed by the actions of George III, the king of Great Britain and Ireland, and because they considered a strong executive incompatible with the republicanism embraced in the Declaration of Independence (1776). Accordingly, their revolutionary state constitutions provided for only nominal executive branches, and the Articles of Confederation (1781–89), the first “national” constitution, established no executive branch. Duties of the office The Constitution succinctly defines presidential functions, powers, and responsibilities. The president’s chief duty is to make sure that the laws are faithfully executed, and this duty is performed through an elaborate system of executive agencies that includes cabinet-level departments. Presidents appoint all cabinet heads and most other high-ranking officials of the executive branch of the federal government. They also nominate all judges of the federal judiciary, including the members of the Supreme Court. Their appointments to executive and judicial posts must be approved by a majority of the Senate (one of the two chambers of Congress, the legislative branch of the federal government, the other being the House of Representatives). The Senate usually confirms these appointments, though it occasionally rejects a nominee to whom a majority of members have strong objections. The president is also the commander in chief of the country’s military and has unlimited authority to direct the movements of land, sea, and air forces. The president has the power to make treaties with foreign governments, though the Senate must approve such treaties by a two-thirds majority. Finally, the president has the power to approve or reject (veto) bills passed by Congress, though Congress can override the president’s veto by summoning a two-thirds majority in favour of the measure. Presidency of the United States of America Quick Facts key people Garry Wills related topics United States First lady White House press secretary Impeachment President United States presidential inauguration Executive agreement Congressional-executive agreement Presidents' Day Vice president of the United States of America Load Next Page Presidency of the United States of America Additional Information More About Additional Reading External Websites The White House - Biography of Calvin Coolidge National Geographic Kids - Presidential Fun Facts The White House - Biography of James Monroe The White House - Biography of Benjamin Harrison The White House - Biography of Chester A. Arthur The Nobel Prize - Biography of Woodrow Wilson The White House - Biography of Richard M. Nixon The White House - Biography of Ulysses S. Grant The White House - Biography of Theodore Roosevelt The White House - Biography of Herbert Hoover The White House - Biography of John Tyler The White House - Biography of Martin Van Buren The White House - Biography of William Howard Taft Official Site of the William J. Clinton Presidential Library and Museum The White House - Biography of Warren G. Harding The White House - Biography of William McKinley The White House - Biography of James Garfield The White House - Biography of William Henry Harrison The White House - Biography of Franklin Pierce The White House - Biography of Franklin D. Roosevelt The White House - Biography of Harry S. Truman Official Site of The James Monroe Memorial Foundation Official Site of the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum The White House - Biography of John F. Kennedy The White House - Biography of John Quincy Adams The White House - Biography of Ronald Reagan The White House - Biography of James K. Polk Official Site of the President Benjamin Harrison Home The White House - Biography of Abraham Lincoln The White House - Biography of Zachary Taylor The White House - Biography of James Buchanan The White House - Biography of Lyndon B. Johnson The White House - Biography of George W. Bush The White House - Biography of Woodrow Wilson The White House - Biography of George Washington The White House - Biography of Rutherford B. Hayes The White House - Biography of Andrew Jackson The White House - Biography of William J. Clinton The White House - Biography of John Adams Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!