https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1789
United States presidential election of 1789 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1789 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction The first presidential election Results of the 1789 election United States presidential election of 1789 United States government Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History United States presidential election of 1789, American presidential election held on Feb. 4, 1789, in which George Washington was unanimously chosen as the first president of the United States by electors from 10 of the 13 extant states. American presidential election, 1789Results of the American presidential election, 1789 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes1 1Electors were chosen by legislatures in many states, not by popular vote. 2In this election, and in others until 1804, each elector voted for two individuals without indicating which was to be president and which vice president. Because the two houses of the New York legislature could not agree on electors, the state did not cast its electoral vote. North Carolina and Rhode Island had not yet ratified the Constitution. George Washington (No formally organized parties) 692 John Adams 34 John Jay 9 R.H. Harrison 6 John Rutledge 6 John Hancock 4 George Clinton 3 Samuel Huntington 2 John Milton 2 James Armstrong 1 Benjamin Lincoln 1 Edward Telfair 1 (Not voted) 44 Source: United States Office of the Federal Register.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The first presidential election Following the Constitutional Convention of May 1787, over which George Washington had presided, his ascent to the presidency was all but a fait accompli. As commander of the Continental Army during the Revolutionary War, Washington had proven masterful at balancing the strategic and political demands of the office. His persistence and devotion to his men and his perpetual mindfulness of the ideals for which they were fighting won him the respect and loyalty of many. As a result, his signature on the new Constitution was a deciding endorsement for some of those who had opposed federalization. George Washington, oil painting by Gilbert Stuart, c. 1796; in the White House.Scala/Art Resource, New York Button bearing George Washington's portrait, produced after his inauguration, c. 1789.Collection of David J. and Janice L. Frent Following the ratification of the Constitution by the necessary nine states in July of 1788, Congress set January 7 of the following year as the date by which states were required to choose electors. Those chosen would cast their votes a month later, on February 4. Washington was loath to leave the comforts of Mount Vernon, but his fellow Founding Fathers viewed his acceptance of the presidency as a foregone conclusion. On Feb. 4, 1789, electors convened in 10 states to cast their ballots. North Carolina, Rhode Island, and New York abstained from the process; the former two states had not ratified the Constitution, and the latter was in the midst of an internecine legislative conflict. Of the 72 electors, all but three cast their ballots (electors voted for two candidates). Washington appeared on all 69 ballots, while nearly half the voters cast their second vote for John Adams, who was duly elected vice president. The remainder of the votes were divided among 10 other candidates. Washington, George: inaugural addressGeorge Washington's First Inaugural Address, delivered at Federal Hall, New York City, April 30, 1789.President Washington's inaugural address is preserved at the National Archives, Washington, D.C., in the Center for Legislative Archives, which has physical custody of the official records of the U.S. Congress dating from 1789; Congress maintains legal custody of these records. On April 16, after receiving congressional notification of the honour, Washington set out from Mount Vernon, reaching New York City in time to be inaugurated on April 30 . His journey northward was a celebratory procession as people in every town and village through which he passed turned out to greet him, often with banners and speeches and in some places with triumphal arches. He came across the Hudson River in a specially built barge decorated in red, white, and blue. The inaugural ceremony was performed on Wall Street, near the spot now marked by John Quincy Adams Ward’s statue of Washington. A great crowd broke into cheers as Washington, standing on the balcony of Federal Hall, took the oath administered by Chancellor Robert Livingston and retired indoors to read to Congress his inaugural address. Washington was clad in a brown suit of American manufacture, but he wore white stockings and a sword after the fashion of European courts. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1792. Results of the 1789 election The results of the 1789 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1789 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes* *Electors were chosen by legislatures in many states, not by popular vote. **In this election, and in others until 1804, each elector voted for two individuals without indicating which was to be president and which was to be vice president. Because the two houses of the New York legislature could not agree on electors, the state did not cast its electoral vote. North Carolina and Rhode Island had not yet ratified the Constitution. Source: United States Office of the Federal Register. George Washington no formally organized parties 69** John Adams 34 John Jay 9 R.H. Harrison 6 John Rutledge 6 John Hancock 4 George Clinton 3 Samuel Huntington 2 John Milton 2 James Armstrong 1 Benjamin Lincoln 1 Edward Telfair 1 not voted 44 This article was most recently revised and updated by Richard Pallardy, Research Editor. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: George Washington George Washington, American general and commander in chief of the colonial armies in the American Revolution (1775–83) and subsequently first president of the United States… presidency of the United States of America Presidency of the United States of America, chief executive office of the United States. In contrast to many countries with parliamentary forms of government, where the office of president, or head of state, is mainly ceremonial, in the United States the president is vested with great authority and is arguably… Constitutional Convention Constitutional Convention, (1787), in U.S. history, convention that drew up the Constitution of the United States. Stimulated by severe economic troubles, which produced radical political movements such as Shays’s Rebellion, and urged on by a demand for a stronger central government, the convention met in the Pennsylvania State House in… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1789 Quick Facts date February 4, 1789 participants John Adams John Hancock John Jay John Rutledge George Washington related topics United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1789 Additional Information External Websites George Washington's Mount Vernon - Presidential Election of 1789 Maps of World - U.S. Presidential Election 1789 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!