https://www.britannica.com/biography/George-Washington
George Washington | Life, Presidency, Accomplishments, & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents George Washington president of United States Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction & Quick Facts Childhood and youth Prerevolutionary military and political career Early military career Marriage and plantation life Prerevolutionary politics Revolutionary leadership Head of the colonial forces The Trenton-Princeton campaign Presidency Postrevolutionary politics The Washington administration Retirement Cabinet of Pres. George Washington George Washington president of United States Written By: Henry Graff Allan Nevins Last Updated: Apr 17, 2020 See Article History Alternative Title: Father of His Country Follow George Washington's life through the American Revolution and retirement to Mount VernonAn overview of George Washington.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article George Washington, also called Father of His Country, (born February 22 [February 11, Old Style], 1732, Westmoreland county, Virginia [U.S.]—died December 14, 1799, Mount Vernon, Virginia, U.S.), American general and commander in chief of the colonial armies in the American Revolution (1775–83) and subsequently first president of the United States (1789–97). Key events in the life of George Washington.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Top Questions What is George Washington known for? George Washington is often called the “Father of His (or Our) Country.” He not only served as the first president of the United States, but he also commanded the Continental Army during the American Revolution (1775–83) and presided over the convention that drafted the U.S. Constitution. The U.S. capital is named after Washington—as are many schools, parks, and cities. Today his face appears on the U.S. dollar bill and the quarter. Presidency of the United States of America Learn about the chief executive office of the United States. American Revolution Read about Washington’s service in the Continental Army during the American Revolution. Constitution of the United States of America Learn about Washington’s role in drafting the U.S. Constitution. What political party did George Washington belong to? Washington did not belong to a political party. He ran as a nonpartisan candidate in the presidential elections of 1789 and 1792. To this day, Washington is the only U.S. president to have been unanimously elected by the Electoral College. Read more below: Presidency United States: Political parties Learn about the origin and development of political parties in the United States. United States presidential election of 1789 Read about the first U.S. presidential election. Did George Washington own slaves? In short, yes. Washington was born into a Virginia planter family. After his father’s death in 1743, Washington inherited 10 slaves. In 1761 Washington acquired a farmhouse (which he later expanded to a five-farm estate) called Mount Vernon. In 1760, 49 slaves lived and worked on the estate; by 1799 that number had increased to over 300. The majority of the slaves that lived on Mount Vernon did not belong to Washington; most were “dower slaves,” received upon marriage. Washington eventually freed the 123 slaves he owned. In his will he ordered that they be freed “upon the decease of my wife.” Read more below: Prerevolutionary military and political career: Marriage and plantation life The Founding Fathers and Slavery Read about the Founding Fathers’ views on slavery. Mount Vernon Learn about Mount Vernon, the home and burial place of George Washington. How did George Washington die? After serving two terms as president, Washington retired to his estate at Mount Vernon in 1797. Two years into his retirement, Washington caught a cold. The cold developed into a throat infection. Doctors cared for Washington as they thought best—by bleeding him, blistering him, and attempting (unsuccessfully) to give him a gargle of “molasses, vinegar, and butter.” Despite their efforts, Washington died on the night of December 14, 1799. Read more below: Presidency: Retirement Did George Washington chop down his father’s cherry tree? For years people have shared a story about the first U.S. president involving a hatchet, a cherry tree, and a young Washington who “cannot tell a lie.” The legend attests to Washington’s honesty, virtue, and piety—that is, if it is true. Alas, it is not. The legend was the invention of a 19th-century bookseller named Mason Locke Weems. The legend is one of many about Washington. Read more below: Childhood and youth Mason Locke Weems Read more about Mason Locke Weems, the man who fabricated the story of Washington chopping down a cherry tree. Washington’s father, Augustine Washington, had gone to school in England, tasted seafaring life, and then settled down to manage his growing Virginia estates. His mother was Mary Ball, whom Augustine, a widower, had married early the previous year. Washington’s paternal lineage had some distinction; an early forebear was described as a “gentleman,” Henry VIII later gave the family lands, and its members held various offices. But family fortunes fell with the Puritan revolution in England, and John Washington, grandfather of Augustine, migrated in 1657 to Virginia. The ancestral home at Sulgrave, Northamptonshire, is maintained as a Washington memorial. Little definite information exists on any of the line until Augustine. He was an energetic, ambitious man who acquired much land, built mills, took an interest in opening iron mines, and sent his two eldest sons to England for schooling. By his first wife, Jane Butler, he had four children. By his second wife, Mary Ball, he had six. Augustine died April 12, 1743. Childhood and youth Little is known of George Washington’s early childhood, spent largely on the Ferry Farm on the Rappahannock River, opposite Fredericksburg, Virginia. Mason L. Weems’s stories of the hatchet and cherry tree and of young Washington’s repugnance to fighting are apocryphal efforts to fill a manifest gap. He attended school irregularly from his 7th to his 15th year, first with the local church sexton and later with a schoolmaster named Williams. Some of his schoolboy papers survive. He was fairly well trained in practical mathematics—gauging, several types of mensuration, and such trigonometry as was useful in surveying. He studied geography, possibly had a little Latin, and certainly read some of The Spectator and other English classics. The copybook in which he transcribed at 14 a set of moral precepts, or Rules of Civility and Decent Behaviour in Company and Conversation, was carefully preserved. His best training, however, was given him by practical men and outdoor occupations, not by books. He mastered tobacco growing and stock raising, and early in his teens he was sufficiently familiar with surveying to plot the fields about him. Washington, GeorgeYoung George Washington as a surveyor, illustration from Old Times in the Colonies (1881), by Charles Carleton Coffin.Old Times in the Colonies, by Charles Carleton Coffin, 1881 Washington, George: mapMap of a portion of the Ohio River region made by George Washington, 1754.Library of Congress, Geography and Map Division, Washington, D.C. (g3820 ct000361) At his father’s death, the 11-year-old boy became the ward of his eldest half brother, Lawrence, a man of fine character who gave him wise and affectionate care. Lawrence inherited the beautiful estate of Little Hunting Creek, which had been granted to the original settler, John Washington, and which Augustine had done much since 1738 to develop. Lawrence married Anne (Nancy) Fairfax, daughter of Col. William Fairfax, a cousin and agent of Lord Fairfax and one of the chief proprietors of the region. Lawrence also built a house and named the 2,500-acre (1,000-hectare) holding Mount Vernon in honour of the admiral under whom he had served in the siege of Cartagena. Living there chiefly with Lawrence (though he spent some time near Fredericksburg with his other half brother, Augustine, called Austin), George entered a more spacious and polite world. Anne Fairfax Washington was a woman of charm, grace, and culture; Lawrence had brought from his English school and naval service much knowledge and experience. A valued neighbour and relative, George William Fairfax, whose large estate, Belvoir, was about 4 miles (6 km) distant, and other relatives by marriage, the Carlyles of Alexandria, helped form George’s mind and manners. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today The youth turned first to surveying as a profession. Lord Fairfax, a middle-aged bachelor who owned more than 5,000,000 acres (2,000,000 hectares) in northern Virginia and the Shenandoah Valley, came to America in 1746 to live with his cousin George William at Belvoir and to look after his properties. Two years later he sent to the Shenandoah Valley a party to survey and plot his lands to make regular tenants of the squatters moving in from Pennsylvania. With the official surveyor of Prince William county in charge, Washington went along as assistant. The 16-year-old lad kept a disjointed diary of the trip, which shows skill in observation. He describes the discomfort of sleeping under “one thread Bear blanket with double its Weight of Vermin such as Lice Fleas & c”; an encounter with an Indian war party bearing a scalp; the Pennsylvania-German emigrants, “as ignorant a set of people as the Indians they would never speak English but when spoken to they speak all Dutch”; and the serving of roast wild turkey on “a Large Chip,” for “as for dishes we had none.” The following year (1749), aided by Lord Fairfax, Washington received an appointment as official surveyor of Culpeper county, and for more than two years he was kept almost constantly busy. Surveying not only in Culpeper but also in Frederick and Augusta counties, he made journeys far beyond the Tidewater region into the western wilderness. The experience taught him resourcefulness and endurance and toughened him in both body and mind. Coupled with Lawrence’s ventures in land, it also gave him an interest in western development that endured throughout his life. He was always disposed to speculate in western holdings and to view favourably projects for colonizing the West, and he greatly resented the limitations that the crown in time laid on the westward movement. In 1752 Lord Fairfax determined to take up his final residence in the Shenandoah Valley and settled there in a log hunting lodge, which he called Greenway Court after a Kentish manor of his family’s. There Washington was sometimes entertained and had access to a small library that Fairfax had begun accumulating at Oxford. The years 1751–52 marked a turning point in Washington’s life, for they placed him in control of Mount Vernon. Lawrence, stricken by tuberculosis, went to Barbados in 1751 for his health, taking George along. From this sole journey beyond the present borders of the United States, Washington returned with the light scars of an attack of smallpox. In July of the next year, Lawrence died, making George executor and residuary heir of his estate should his daughter, Sarah, die without issue. As she died within two months, Washington at age 20 became head of one of the best Virginia estates. He always thought farming the “most delectable” of pursuits. “It is honorable,” he wrote, “it is amusing, and, with superior judgment, it is profitable.” And, of all the spots for farming, he thought Mount Vernon the best. “No estate in United America,” he assured an English correspondent, “is more pleasantly situated than this.” His greatest pride in later days was to be regarded as the first farmer of the land. Mount VernonEast view of the mansion at Mount Vernon, Fairfax county, Virginia.George Washington's Mount Vernon Estate & Gardens; photograph, Robert C. Lautman He gradually increased the estate until it exceeded 8,000 acres (3,000 hectares). He enlarged the house in 1760 and made further enlargements and improvements on the house and its landscaping in 1784–86. He also tried to keep abreast of the latest scientific advances. For the next 20 years the main background of Washington’s life was the work and society of Mount Vernon. He gave assiduous attention to the rotation of crops, fertilization of the soil, and the management of livestock. He had to manage the 18 slaves that came with the estate and others he bought later; by 1760 he had paid taxes on 49 slaves—though he strongly disapproved of the institution and hoped for some mode of abolishing it. At the time of his death, more than 300 slaves were housed in the quarters on his property. He had been unwilling to sell slaves lest families be broken up, even though the increase in their numbers placed a burden on him for their upkeep and gave him a larger force of workers than he required, especially after he gave up the cultivation of tobacco. In his will, he bequeathed the slaves in his possession to his wife and ordered that upon her death they be set free, declaring also that the young, the aged, and the infirm among them “shall be comfortably cloathed & fed by my heirs.” Still, this accounted for only about half the slaves on his property. The other half, owned by his wife, were entailed to the Custis estate, so that on her death they were destined to pass to her heirs. However, she freed all the slaves in 1800 after his death. The Farmer, lithograph, 1853, portrays George Washington, offering a sentimentalized view of slaves working at Mount Vernon.Courtesy, American Antiquarian Society For diversion Washington was fond of riding, fox hunting, and dancing, of such theatrical performances as he could reach, and of duck hunting and sturgeon fishing. He liked billiards and cards and not only subscribed to racing associations but also ran his own horses in races. In all outdoor pursuits, from wrestling to colt breaking, he excelled. A friend of the 1750s describes him as “straight as an Indian, measuring six feet two inches in his stockings”; as very muscular and broad-shouldered but, though large-boned, weighing only 175 pounds; and as having long arms and legs. His penetrating blue-gray eyes were overhung by heavy brows, his nose was large and straight, and his mouth was large and firmly closed. “His movements and gestures are graceful, his walk majestic, and he is a splendid horseman.” He soon became prominent in community affairs, was an active member and later vestryman of the Episcopal church, and as early as 1755 expressed a desire to stand for the Virginia House of Burgesses. George Washington Quick Facts View Media Page born February 22, 1732 Westmoreland, Virginia died December 14, 1799 (aged 67) Mount Vernon, Virginia title / office presidency of the United States of America, United States (1789-1797) Commander-in-Chief, United States (1775-1783) Continental Congress, United States (1774-1775) political affiliation Federalist Party role in American Revolution French and Indian War Battles of Trenton and Princeton Battle of the Brandywine Battle of Fort Necessity Siege of Yorktown Battle of Monmouth Battle of Jumonville Glen Battle of Germantown Battle of Long Island awards and honors Hall of Fame for Great Americans (1900) notable family members spouse Martha Washington did you know? George Washington is one of only two presidents whose face appears on a U.S. bill and coin. Load Next Page George Washington Additional Information More About Additional Reading Quotes External Websites Alpha History - Biography of George Washington The Washington Library Center for Digital History - The Revolutionary War United States Senate - Biography of George Washington History Central - Biography of George Washington USA 4 Kids - Biography of George Washington The White House - Biography of George Washington Encyclopedia Virginia - Biography of George Washington Spartacus Educational - Biography of George Washington Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. George Washington - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) George Washington - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!