https://www.britannica.com/biography/John-Adams-president-of-United-States
John Adams | Biography, Presidency, & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents John Adams president of United States Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction & Quick Facts Early life Continental Congress Foreign service Political philosophy Vice presidency and presidency Retirement Cabinet of President John Adams John Adams president of United States Written By: Joseph J. Ellis Last Updated: Apr 17, 2020 See Article History Alternative Title: Novanglus Examine the life of the United States' first vice president and second president, John AdamsAn overview of John Adams.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article John Adams, (born October 30 [October 19, Old Style], 1735, Braintree [now in Quincy], Massachusetts [U.S.] —died July 4, 1826, Quincy, Massachusetts, U.S. ), an early advocate of American independence from Great Britain, a major figure in the Continental Congress (1774–77), the author of the Massachusetts constitution (1780), a signer of the Treaty of Paris (1783), the first American ambassador to the Court of St. James (1785–88), and the first vice president (1789–97) and second president (1797–1801) of the United States. Although Adams was regarded by his contemporaries as one of the most significant statesmen of the revolutionary era, his reputation faded in the 19th century, only to ascend again during the last half of the 20th century. The modern edition of his correspondence prompted a rediscovery of his bracing honesty and pungent way with words, his importance as a political thinker, his realistic perspective on American foreign policy, and his patriarchal role as founder of one of the most prominent families in American history. Key events in the life of John Adams.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Top Questions What were John Adams’s accomplishments? John Adams was an advocate of American independence from Britain, a major figure in the Continental Congress (1774–77), the author of the Massachusetts constitution (1780), a signer of the Treaty of Paris (1783), ambassador to the Court of St. James (1785–88), and the first vice president (1789–97) and second president (1797–1801) of the United States. When did John Adams become president? Having finished second to George Washington in the first U.S. presidential election in 1789 and serving as Washington’s vice president (1789–97), Adams won a narrow victory over Thomas Jefferson to be elected as the second president of the United States in 1796. He then lost to Jefferson in the 1800 presidential election. What was John Adams’s family like? John Adams’s familycould trace its lineage to the first generation of Puritan settlers in New England and made major contributions to U.S. political and intellectual life for more than 150 years. His cousin Samuel Adams was, like John Adams, a lynchpin of the American Revolution. John Quincy Adams, like his father, John Adams, served as U.S. president. What was John Adams’s early life like? John Adams was born and raised in Braintree (now in Quincy), Massachusetts. The eldest of the three sons of farmer and shoemaker Deacon John Adams, he was encouraged to aspire to the ministry and graduated from Harvard College (1755). He taught grammar school for three years before choosing law rather than the ministry as his career. Early life Adams was the eldest of the three sons of Deacon John Adams and Susanna Boylston of Braintree, Massachusetts. His father was only a farmer and shoemaker, but the Adams family could trace its lineage back to the first generation of Puritan settlers in New England. A local selectman and a leader in the community, Deacon Adams encouraged his eldest son to aspire toward a career in the ministry. In keeping with that goal, Adams graduated from Harvard College in 1755. For the next three years, he taught grammar school in Worcester, Massachusetts, while contemplating his future. He eventually chose law rather than the ministry and in 1758 moved back to Braintree, then soon began practicing law in nearby Boston. Adams, John: birthplaceThe birthplace of John Adams, in Quincy, Massachusetts.Daderot In 1764 Adams married Abigail Smith, a minister’s daughter from neighbouring Weymouth. Intelligent, well-read, vivacious, and just as fiercely independent as her new husband, Abigail Adams became a confidante and political partner who helped to stabilize and sustain the ever-irascible and highly volatile Adams throughout his long career. The letters between them afford an extended glimpse into their deepest thoughts and emotions and provide modern readers with the most revealing record of personal intimacy between husband and wife in the revolutionary era. Typical of their epistolary exchange was Abigail’s lament regarding John’s prolonged absence in her letter to him of November 27, 1775: Colonel Warren returned last week to Plymouth, so that I shall not hear anything from you until he goes back again, which will not be till the last of this month. He damped my spirits greatly by telling me that the court had prolonged your stay another month. I was pleasing myself with the thought that you would soon be upon your return. It is in vain to repine. I hope the public will reap what I sacrifice. Their first child, Abigail Amelia, was born in 1765. Their first son, John Quincy, arrived two years later. Two other sons, Thomas Boylston and Charles, followed shortly thereafter. (Another child, Susanna, did not survive infancy.) Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today By then Adams’s legal career was on the rise, and he had become a visible member of the resistance movement that questioned Parliament’s right to tax the American colonies. In 1765 Adams wrote “A Dissertation on the Canon and Feudal Law,” which justified opposition to the recently enacted Stamp Act—an effort to raise revenue by requiring all publications and legal documents to bear a stamp—by arguing that Parliament’s intrusions into colonial affairs exposed the inherently coercive and corrupt character of English politics. Intensely combative, full of private doubts about his own capacities but never about his cause, Adams became a leading figure in the opposition to the Townshend Acts (1767), which imposed duties on imported commodities (i.e., glass, lead, paper, paint, and tea). Despite his hostility toward the British government, in 1770 Adams agreed to defend the British soldiers who had fired on a Boston crowd in what became known as the Boston Massacre. His insistence on upholding the legal rights of the soldiers, who in fact had been provoked, made him temporarily unpopular but also marked him as one of the most principled radicals in the burgeoning movement for American independence. He had a penchant for doing the right thing, most especially when it made him unpopular. Boston Massacre: trial of British soldiersDocument relating to the trial of the British soldiers accused of murdering five people during the Boston Massacre (1770). John Adams served as the defense lawyer, and only two men were convicted; they were released after their thumbs were branded.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (E215.4 .W458) John Adams Quick Facts View Media Page born October 30, 1735 Braintree, Massachusetts died July 4, 1826 (aged 90) Quincy, Massachusetts title / office presidency of the United States of America, United States (1797-1801) vice president of the United States of America, United States (1789-1797) political affiliation Federalist Party notable works “Thoughts on Government” “A Dissertation on the Canon and Federal Law” “Discourses on Davila” “A Defence of the Constitutions of Government of the United States of America” subjects of study political philosophy constitution foreign policy role in American Revolution Judiciary Act of 1801 Alien and Sedition Acts awards and honors Hall of Fame for Great Americans (1900) house / dynasty Adams family notable family members spouse Abigail Adams son John Quincy Adams Load Next Page John Adams Additional Information More About Additional Reading Quotes External Websites Spartacus Educational - Biography of John Adams National Park Service - Biography of John Adams Heritage History - Biography of John Adams USA 4 Kids - Biography of John Adams The White House - Biography of John Adams Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. John Adams - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) John Adams - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!