https://www.britannica.com/biography/John-Rutledge
John Rutledge | American chief justice | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 John Rutledge American chief justice Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter John Rutledge American chief justice Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Apr 3, 2020 See Article History John Rutledge, (born September 1739, Charleston, S.C. [U.S.]—died July 18, 1800, Charleston, S.C.), American legislator who, as a delegate to the Constitutional Convention of 1787, strongly supported the protection of slavery and the concept of a strong central government, a position then possible, but paradoxical in later times when slavery’s defenders sheltered behind the bastion of states’ rights. After studying in England, Rutledge returned to Charleston to practice law. Reflecting views acceptable to both planters and merchants in his area, he was chosen as a delegate to the Stamp Act Congress (1765) and to the Continental Congress (1774–77, 1782–83). After chairing the committee that framed the South Carolina constitution (1776), he was elected president of the state’s General Assembly, but he resigned in 1778 when the constitution was amended to include provisions he considered too democratic. In 1779 he was elected South Carolina’s governor, and, after the state was invaded by the British in that year, he held the skeleton colonial government together until the end of the war. At the Constitutional Convention in 1787, Rutledge spoke for Southern planters by supporting slavery. He argued in favour of dividing society into classes as a basis for representation and also postulated high property qualifications for holding office. As chairman of the Committee on Detail, he recommended the granting of indefinite powers of legislation to the national government for the purpose of promoting the general welfare. From 1789 to 1791 he served as an associate justice of the U.S. Supreme Court and for the next four years as chief justice of the South Carolina Supreme Court. Nominated Chief Justice of the United States in 1795, he failed to win Senate confirmation because of his outspoken opposition to the Jay Treaty of the previous year. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today His brother Edward Rutledge was a signer of the Declaration of Independence (1776), fought against the British in South Carolina during the American Revolution, and served in the South Carolina legislature (1782–98) and as governor (1798–1800) of the state. This article was most recently revised and updated by Michael Ray, Editor. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Great Seal of the United States: Origin of the Great Seal Arthur Middleton and John Rutledge of South Carolina and Elias Boudinot of New Jersey. This committee sought help from William Barton, a young Philadelphian accomplished in heraldry and drawing. Barton prepared two complicated designs, the second of which the committee reported to Congress on May 9, 1782. In… Constitutional Convention Constitutional Convention, (1787), in U.S. history, convention that drew up the Constitution of the United States. Stimulated by severe economic troubles, which produced radical political movements such as Shays’s Rebellion, and urged on by a demand for a stronger central government, the convention met in the Pennsylvania State House in… Continental Congress Continental Congress, in the period of the American Revolution, the body of delegates who spoke and acted collectively for the people of the colony-states that later became the United States of America. The term most specifically refers to the bodies that met in 1774 and 1775–81 and respectively designated as… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. John Rutledge Quick Facts View Media Page born September 1739 Charleston, South Carolina died July 18, 1800 (aged 60) Charleston, South Carolina title / office Supreme Court of the United States, United States (1790-1791) Continental Congress, United States (1782-1783) governor, South Carolina (1779-1782) Continental Congress, United States (1774-1777) role in Constitutional Convention John Rutledge Additional Information More About External Websites United States Senate - John Rutledge Oyez - Biography of John Rutledge Digital South Carolina Encyclopedia - Biography of John Rutledge Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. John Rutledge - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!