https://www.britannica.com/biography/George-Clinton-vice-president-of-United-States
George Clinton | vice president of United States | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 George Clinton vice president of United States Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter George Clinton vice president of United States Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Apr 16, 2020 See Article History George Clinton, (born July 26, 1739, Little Britain, N.Y., U.S.—died April 20, 1812, Washington, D.C.), fourth vice president of the United States (1805–12) in the administrations of Thomas Jefferson and James Madison. Clinton was the son of Charles Clinton, a farmer and surveyor, and Elizabeth Denniston. He served in the last French and Indian War (1756–63) and was a member of the New York Assembly (1768–75) and the Continental Congress. In the summer of 1776, before he could sign the Declaration of Independence, he was ordered by General George Washington to New York City. In March 1777 he was appointed brigadier general. Immensely popular with the people of New York, Clinton was elected governor in 1777, serving 21 years (1777–95; 1801–04) as a forceful leader and able administrator. Fearful of threats to his political power in New York, he argued against ratification of the United States Constitution, maintaining that the power granted to the national government to regulate commerce would undermine New York’s commercial advantages. In national politics Clinton was a follower of Jefferson and was elected as his vice president in 1804. After an unsuccessful attempt to win nomination for president in 1808 he was reelected vice president under Madison. He died before the expiration of his second term, the first vice president to die in office. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States presidential election of 1792: The candidates George Clinton, a vehement champion of states’ rights. Aaron Burr, New York’s attorney general, was briefly considered as a Republican candidate as well but ultimately ceded to Clinton.… United States presidential election of 1808: Candidates and issues George Clinton . Clinton, who had boycotted the caucus, was nominated to continue as vice president, in part to undermine his presidential ambitions.… New Windsor George Clinton, the first governor of New York, and his nephew DeWitt Clinton were born in Little Britain. The New Windsor Cantonment, the winter camp (1782–83) of the Continental Army during the American Revolution, has been reconstructed as a state historic site. There, at Temple… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. George Clinton Quick Facts View Media Page born July 26, 1739 Little Britain, New York died April 20, 1812 (aged 72) Washington, D.C., United States title / office vice president of the United States of America, United States (1809-1812) vice president of the United States of America, United States (1805-1809) governor, New York (1777-1795) role in American Revolution French and Indian War George Clinton Additional Information More About External Websites Architect of the Capitol - Biography of George Clinton The Civil War - Biography of George Clinton Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. George Clinton - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!