https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1792
United States presidential election of 1792 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1792 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction The candidates The election Results of the 1792 election United States presidential election of 1792 United States government Written By: John M. Cunningham See Article History United States presidential election of 1792, American presidential election held in 1792, in which George Washington unanimously won a second term as president of the United States. American presidential election, 1792Results of the American presidential election, 1792 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes1 1Electors were chosen by legislatures in many states, not by popular vote. George Washington Federalist 132 John Adams Federalist 77 George Clinton Democratic-Republican 50 Thomas Jefferson 4 Aaron Burr 1 Source: United States Office of the Federal Register.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The candidates Suffering from diminished physical abilities, Pres. George Washington had wished to retire at the end of his first term in office. However, some advisers and fellow statesmen argued that the volatile political climate—marked not only by the ongoing conflict between Great Britain and France but also by a growing internal dispute between Federalists and Anti-Federalists that often divided along regional lines—demanded a president who could reliably maintain the young country’s stability. Washington, who remained immensely popular throughout the United States, thus eventually agreed to run for reelection in 1792. George Washington, oil painting by Gilbert Stuart, c. 1796; in the White House.Scala/Art Resource, New York While no effort was made to unseat Washington as president, Anti-Federalists, led by Thomas Jefferson and James Madison, mounted a campaign during the year to replace the Federalist Vice Pres. John Adams. Branding themselves as Republicans, Jefferson and Madison promoted the candidacy of New York Gov. George Clinton, a vehement champion of states’ rights. Aaron Burr, New York’s attorney general, was briefly considered as a Republican candidate as well but ultimately ceded to Clinton. George Clinton, detail of an oil painting by Ezra Ames, 1814; in the collection of The New-York Historical Society.Collection of The New-York Historical Society The election On March 1, 1792, the U.S. Congress had approved a law that regulated the procedures by which a president and vice president of the United States were chosen. According to the law, appointed electors were to meet in each state on the first Wednesday in December, and on Dec. 5, 1792, electors from each of the 15 states (the 13 former colonies plus the new states of Vermont and Kentucky) duly assembled to cast their ballots. As with the previous presidential election, each elector voted for two candidates. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today On Feb. 13, 1793, the votes were counted during a joint session of Congress. As expected, Washington received the maximum of 132 electoral votes and was therefore reelected as president. Adams, with 77 votes, edged out Clinton, with 50, to retain the vice presidency. (Four remaining votes were cast for Jefferson and one for Burr.) The successful execution of a second democratic election in the United States helped legitimize the institution of the American presidency. For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1789. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1796.John M. Cunningham Results of the 1792 election The results of the 1792 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1792 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes* *Electors were chosen by legislatures in many states, not by popular vote. Source: United States Office of the Federal Register. George Washington Federalist 132 John Adams Federalist 77 George Clinton Democratic-Republican 50 Thomas Jefferson 4 Aaron Burr 1 Learn More in these related Britannica articles: George Washington George Washington, American general and commander in chief of the colonial armies in the American Revolution (1775–83) and subsequently first president of the United States… presidency of the United States of America Presidency of the United States of America, chief executive office of the United States. In contrast to many countries with parliamentary forms of government, where the office of president, or head of state, is mainly ceremonial, in the United States the president is vested with great authority and is arguably… Federalist Party Federalist Party, early U.S. national political party that advocated a strong central government and held power from 1789 to 1801, during the rise of the country’s political party system. The term federalist was first used in 1787 to describe the supporters of the newly written Constitution, who emphasized the federal… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1792 Quick Facts date December 5, 1792 participants John Adams Aaron Burr George Clinton Thomas Jefferson George Washington related topics Federalist Party Democratic-Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1792 Additional Information External Websites George Washington's Mount Vernon - Presidential Election of 1792 Maps of World - U.S. Presidential Election 1792 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!