https://www.britannica.com/topic/Federalist-Party
Federalist Party | Definition, History, Beliefs, & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Federalist Party historical political party, United States Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Federalist Party historical political party, United States Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Alternative Title: Federal Party Federalist Party, early U.S. national political party that advocated a strong central government and held power from 1789 to 1801, during the rise of the country’s political party system. The term federalist was first used in 1787 to describe the supporters of the newly written Constitution, who emphasized the federal character of the proposed union. Between October 1787 and August 1788, Alexander Hamilton, John Jay, and James Madison wrote a series of 85 essays that appeared in various New York newspapers attributed to the pseudonym “Publius.” The Federalist papers (formally The Federalist), as the combined essays are called, were written to combat Anti-Federalism and to persuade the public of the necessity of the Constitution.The Federalist papers stressed the need for an adequate central government and argued that the republican form of government easily could be adapted to the large expanse of territory and widely divergent interests found in the United States. The essays were immediately recognized as the most powerful defense of the new Constitution. Satire of the Hartford Convention, secret meetings of Federalists that lasted from December 1814 to January 1815 and eventually led to the party's demise.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (digital id: ppmsca 10755) Read More on This Topic United States: The Federalist administration and the formation of parties The first elections under the new Constitution were held in 1789. George Washington was unanimously voted the country’s first president.… Parties were generally deplored as inimical to republican government, and Pres. George Washington was able to exercise nonpartisan leadership during the first few years of the new government (begun in 1789). Strong division, however, developed over the fiscal program of the secretary of the treasury, Hamilton, whom Washington supported. Hamilton and other proponents of a strong central government formed the Federalist Party in 1791. Differences with the opposition were intensified by ideological attitudes toward the French Revolution, and by 1795 administration supporters had hardened into a regular party, which succeeded in elevating John Adams to the presidency in the 1796 election. Over the decade of the 1790s, the Federalists stood for the following economic policies: funding of the old Revolutionary War debt and the assumption of state debts, passage of excise laws, creation of a central bank, maintenance of a tariff system, and favourable treatment of American shipping. In foreign affairs they observed neutrality in the war that broke out between France and Great Britain in 1793; approved the Jay Treaty of 1794, which terminated the difficulties with Britain; and sponsored strong defense and internal-security legislation in the crisis of 1798–99 (see Alien and Sedition Acts), when French demands almost forced open war. These policies were strongly resisted, especially in the South; the opposition, organized by Madison and Thomas Jefferson beginning in 1791, became the Republican Party (also known as the Jeffersonian Republicans), which later was renamed the Democratic-Republican Party. Eventually this organization became the modern Democratic Party. The name Republican was taken over in the 1850s by a new party that espoused Federalist economic ideas and that survives to the present day under that name. The Federalists never held power again after 1801. Their failure is attributable to the Republicans’ political skill and to the Federalists’ own incapacity or unwillingness to organize politically, their internal divisions (especially between supporters of Adams and Hamilton), and their aversion to compromising principles for the sake of winning elections. Furthermore, New England Federalists adopted a divisive policy of sectionalism, moving dangerously near secession in 1808 and strenuously opposing the War of 1812 (see Hartford Convention). By 1817 the party was practically dead, though the opposing Republicans had adopted the Federalists’ principles of nationality and had accepted many of their economic ideas. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today The accomplishments of the Federalists were great: the party organized the enduring administrative machinery of national government; fixed the practice of a liberal interpretation of the Constitution; established traditions of federal fiscal integrity and credit worthiness; and initiated the important doctrine of neutrality in foreign affairs, allowing the infant nation to develop in peace for more than a century. The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica This article was most recently revised and updated by Jeff Wallenfeldt, Manager, Geography and History. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: The Federalist administration and the formation of parties The first elections under the new Constitution were held in 1789. George Washington was unanimously voted the country’s first president. His secretary of the treasury, Alexander Hamilton, formed a clear-cut program that soon gave substance to… United States: The Constitutional Convention …seized the appellation of “Federalists,” though they were really nationalists—were strong in states such as Virginia, New York, and Massachusetts, where the economy was relatively successful and many people saw little need for such extreme remedies. Anti-Federalists also expressed fears—here touches of class conflict certainly arose—that the new government… Thomas Jefferson: Party politics …camps had emerged, calling themselves Federalists and Republicans (later Democratic-Republicans). Not that modern-day political parties, with their mechanisms for raising money, selecting candidates, and waging election campaigns, were fully formed at this stage. (Full-blooded political parties date from the 1830s and ’40s.) But an embryonic version of the party structure… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Federalist Party Quick Facts date 1795 - 1817 related people George Washington John Quincy Adams John Adams Alexander Hamilton Daniel Webster James Buchanan Roger B. Taney Roger B. Taney Oliver Ellsworth Charles Pinckney areas of involvement Federalism Federalist Party Additional Information More About External Websites North Carolina History Project - Federalist Party Public Broadcasting Service - American Experience - The Federalist and the Republican Party Social Studies for Kids - The Federalist Party Ohio History Central - Federalist Party Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Federalist Party - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!