https://www.britannica.com/biography/Aaron-Burr
Aaron Burr | Biography & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents Aaron Burr vice president of United States Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction & Quick Facts Early years and the American Revolution Political career: U.S. Senate and vice presidency Duel and treason charges Aaron Burr vice president of United States Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Alternative Titles: Aaron Burr, Jr. Aaron Burr, in full Aaron Burr, Jr., (born February 6, 1756, Newark, New Jersey [U.S.]—died September 14, 1836, Port Richmond, New York, U.S.), third vice president of the United States (1801–05), who killed his political rival, Alexander Hamilton, in a duel (1804) and whose turbulent political career ended with his arrest for treason in 1807. Early years and the American Revolution Burr, the son of Aaron Burr, Sr., and Esther Edwards, came from a prominent New Jersey family and was a grandson of the theologian Jonathan Edwards. While he was still a young child, both his parents died, and he and his sister, Sarah, were ultimately raised by an uncle. At age 16 Burr graduated from the College of New Jersey (later Princeton University)—his father had served as the school’s second president—and then began studying law. However, Burr halted his studies to fight in the American Revolution (1775–83). He distinguished himself while serving with Benedict Arnold and was promoted to major. He then joined the staff of Gen. George Washington, but both men reportedly developed a mutual dislike for each other, and he was soon transferred. Burr then became an aide to Gen. Israel Putnam and became known for his bravery. He rose to the rank of lieutenant colonel, but in 1779 he resigned, largely because of ill health. Political career: U.S. Senate and vice presidency In 1782 Burr was admitted to the New York state bar, and his law practice in New York City soon flourished. During this time he married a widow, and the couple was together until her death in 1794. In 1784 and 1785 he was elected to the state assembly, and in 1789 he was appointed attorney general by Gov. George Clinton. By 1791 he had built a successful political coalition against Gen. Philip Schuyler, father-in-law of Alexander Hamilton (then secretary of the treasury), and won election to the United States Senate, incurring the enmity of Hamilton. Burr ran for vice president in 1796 but lost. The following year he failed to win reelection to the Senate—losing to Schuyler—and spent the next two years in state politics. In 1800 Burr won the vice presidential nomination on the Jeffersonian Republican ticket. He carried New York state and thus helped bring about a national victory for his party. Under the electoral college procedures then prevailing, the electors had cast their votes for both Thomas Jefferson and Burr without indicating which should be president and which vice president. Both men had an equal number of electoral votes, and the Federalist-controlled House of Representatives had to break the tie. Although Burr maintained that he would not challenge Jefferson—an assertion that Jefferson did not wholly accept—Hamilton’s determined opposition to Burr was a strong factor in Jefferson’s election after 36 ballots. (In 1804 the Twelfth Amendment to the United States Constitution was adopted, requiring electors to cast separate ballots for president and vice president.) American presidential election, 1800Results of the American presidential election, 1800Source: United States Office of the Federal Register.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Burr took office, but he was marginalized by Jefferson, who had come to believe that Burr had been engaged in secret dealings to secure the presidency for himself. That and other incidents left Burr deeply unpopular with party leaders, and his renomination as vice president seemed doubtful. Duel and treason charges In February 1804 Burr’s friends in the New York legislature nominated him for the governorship. Hamilton contributed to Burr’s defeat by disseminating letters containing derogatory comments about Burr. Shortly thereafter, Governor Clinton replaced him as the Republican vice presidential candidate. Once again Burr felt himself to be the political victim of Hamilton’s animosity, and he challenged him to a duel at Weehawken, New Jersey. (Although duels were illegal in both New York and New Jersey, the penalties were less severe in the latter state.) The two men faced off on July 11, 1804. There are conflicting accounts about what happened. It is uncertain who fired first and whether Hamilton missed on purpose or whether he shot wide after involuntarily discharging his pistol when hit by Burr. In any event, Burr was unhurt, but Hamilton was fatally wounded and died the next day. Hamilton, Alexander; Burr, AaronThe duel between Aaron Burr and Alexander Hamilton.Beacon Lights of History, Vol. XI, by John Lord, 1902 Arrest warrants were issued for Burr, whom many now viewed as a murderer, and he fled to Philadelphia, where he contacted his friend Gen. James Wilkinson, a United States Army officer secretly in the pay of Spain and the governor of the northern Louisiana territory. Expecting war to break out between the United States and Spain over boundary disputes, Wilkinson and Burr planned an invasion of Mexico in order to establish an independent government there. Possibly—the record is inconclusive—they also discussed a plan to foment a secessionist movement in the West and, joining it to Mexico, to found an empire on the Napoleonic model. In any event, Wilkinson became alarmed and betrayed Burr to President Jefferson. Trying to escape to Spanish territory, Burr was arrested and returned for trial to Richmond, Virginia, the site of the nearest federal court that could hear a trial for treason. Chief Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court John Marshall presided in his capacity as circuit judge for Virginia. (At that time, circuit courts had original jurisdiction to try treason cases; the Supreme Court has never had that power.) Marshall acquitted Burr on the ground that acts of treason against the United States by definition require the existence of a state of war (Article III, Section 3 of the U.S. Constitution). Burr, AaronAaron Burr.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Although acquitted, Burr remained under a cloud of suspicion and distrust. He soon left for Europe, where he tried in vain to enlist the aid of Napoleon in a plan to conquer Florida. Burr remained abroad for four years, living in customary indebtedness. He returned to New York in 1812 and practiced law. He married a wealthy widow, Elizabeth Brown Jumel, in 1833, but he frittered away much of her fortune within a year. Eventually she sued for divorce on grounds of adultery, and a divorce decree was granted on September 14, 1836, the day Burr died. This article was most recently revised and updated by Amy Tikkanen, Corrections Manager. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: The Jeffersonian Republicans in power Aaron Burr, who had been elected Jefferson’s vice president in 1800 but was replaced in 1804, led several western conspiracies. Arrested and tried for treason, he was acquitted in 1807.… The Rise of Andrew Jackson: Military Career It persuaded former vice president Aaron Burr that Jackson could be useful in a shadowy scheme, possibly for the conquest of western lands. The details of the “Burr Conspiracy” remain a mystery, but many at the time thought Aaron Burr a scoundrel, or worse. Jackson always denied any wrongdoing, but… Thomas Jefferson: Party politics …offered the vice presidency to Aaron Burr in return for delivering the electoral votes of New York. In the final tally the 12 New York votes made the difference, with the tandem of Jefferson and Burr winning 73 to 65. A quirk in the Constitution, subsequently corrected in the Twelfth… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Aaron Burr Quick Facts View Media Page born February 6, 1756 Newark, New Jersey died September 14, 1836 (aged 80) Port Richmond, New York title / office vice president of the United States of America, United States (1801-1805) United States Senate, United States (1791-1797) political affiliation Democratic-Republican Party role in Burr–Hamilton duel Aaron Burr Additional Information More About Additional Reading External Websites Heritage History - Biography of Aaron Burr United States Senate - Art and History - Biography of Aaron Burr Ohio History Central - Biography of Aaron Burr Texas State Historical Association - The Handbook of Texas Online - Biography of Aaron Burr Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Aaron Burr - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!