https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1796
US presidential election of 1796 | Candidates, Results, & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1796 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction Rise of the political party system Results of the 1796 election United States presidential election of 1796 United States government Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History United States presidential election of 1796, American presidential election held in 1796, in which Federalist John Adams defeated Democratic-Republican Thomas Jefferson. American presidential election, 1796Results of the American presidential election, 1796 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes1 1Electors were chosen by legislatures in many states, not by popular vote. John Adams Federalist 71 Thomas Jefferson Democratic-Republican 68 Thomas Pinckney Federalist 59 Aaron Burr Antifederalist 30 Samuel Adams Democratic-Republican 15 Oliver Ellsworth Federalist 11 George Clinton Democratic-Republican 7 John Jay Independent-Federalist 5 James Iredell Federalist 3 George Washington Federalist 2 John Henry Independent 2 S. Johnston Independent-Federalist 2 Charles Cotesworth Pinckney Independent-Federalist 1 Source: United States Office of the Federal Register.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Rise of the political party system The election of 1796 marked the emergence of the political party system in the United States. In the previous elections of 1789 and 1792, George Washington won unanimous support with no party affiliation, but over the course of his presidency a strong political divide had formed around the fiscal policy of Alexander Hamilton. Hamilton and others who favoured a loose interpretation of the Constitution and a strong central government formed the Federalist Party in 1791. Their opponents, favouring a strict interpretation of the Constitution and states’ rights, rallied around Thomas Jefferson. Though Jefferson maintained that the party system was unfavourable, he formed his own party, later to become known as the Democratic-Republican party. Political issues in the 1790s began to be viewed along these party lines, and the rift between the Federalists and the Democratic-Republicans was furthered by foreign policy disputes. In 1796, though there was not yet a clear procedure for selecting partisan candidates, informal and secretive caucuses were held for the parties’ congressional delegations to choose presidential and vice presidential nominees. The Democratic-Republicans chose Jefferson, and the Federalists nominated Vice Pres. John Adams. Neither party was able to decide on a vice presidential candidate. At the time, however, the Constitution—not having anticipated the rise of the party system—stated that the candidate with the second highest total of votes would become vice president. John AdamsJohn Adams, oil on canvas by Gilbert Stuart, c. 1800–15; in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C. 73.7 × 61 cm.Courtesy National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C., Gift of Mrs. Robert Homans, 1954.7.1 Jefferson, ThomasThomas Jefferson, oil on wood by Gilbert Stuart, c. 1821; in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C. 66 × 54.5 cm.Courtesy National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C., Gift of Thomas Jefferson Coolidge IV in memory of his great-grandfather, Thomas Jefferson Coolidge, his grandfather, Thomas Jefferson Coolidge II, and his father, Thomas Jefferson Coolidge III, 1986.71. Though unfamiliarity with contested presidential elections and the indirectness of the electoral system led to low public interest, the election was closely fought—in part because of the rapidly forming party divide. The result was a narrow victory for Adams, who carried 71 electoral votes to Jefferson’s 68. Adams swept the northeast, while Jefferson won much of the south and west. Under the original electoral system devised under the Constitution (not changed until the Twelfth Amendment in 1804), Jefferson became Adams’s vice president—a situation that, owing to their conflicting political parties, proved difficult for the Adams administration. Pitcher inscribed “John Adams, President of the United States,” c. 1797.Collection of David J. and Janice L. Frent Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1792. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1800. Results of the 1796 election The results of the 1796 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1796 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes* *Electors were chosen by legislatures in many states, not by popular vote. Source: United States Office of the Federal Register. John Adams Federalist 71 Thomas Jefferson Democratic-Republican 68 Thomas Pinckney Federalist 59 Aaron Burr Anti-Federalist 30 Samuel Adams Democratic-Republican 15 Oliver Ellsworth Federalist 11 George Clinton Democratic-Republican 7 John Jay Independent-Federalist 5 James Iredell Federalist 3 George Washington Federalist 2 John Henry Independent 2 Samuel Johnston Independent-Federalist 2 Charles Cotesworth Pinckney Independent-Federalist 1 The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica This article was most recently revised and updated by Amy Tikkanen, Corrections Manager. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Aaron Burr: Political career: U.S. Senate and vice presidency Burr ran for vice president in 1796 but lost. The following year he failed to win reelection to the Senate—losing to Schuyler—and spent the next two years in state politics.… Federalist Party Federalist Party, early U.S. national political party that advocated a strong central government and held power from 1789 to 1801, during the rise of the country’s political party system. The term federalist was first used in 1787 to describe the supporters of the newly written Constitution, who emphasized the federal… John Adams John Adams, an early advocate of American independence from Great Britain, a major figure in the Continental Congress (1774–77), the author of the Massachusetts constitution (1780), a signer… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1796 Quick Facts date 1796 participants John Adams Samuel Adams Aaron Burr Oliver Ellsworth Thomas Jefferson Thomas Pinckney related topics Anti-Federalists Federalist Party Democratic-Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1796 Additional Information More About External Websites Maps of World - U.S. Presidential Election 1796 United States History - Election of 1796 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!