https://www.britannica.com/biography/Thomas-Pinckney
Thomas Pinckney | American statesman | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Thomas Pinckney American statesman Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Thomas Pinckney American statesman Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Apr 13, 2020 See Article History Thomas Pinckney, (born Oct. 23, 1750, Charleston, S.C. [U.S.]—died Nov. 2, 1828, Charleston), American soldier, politician, and diplomat who negotiated Pinckney’s Treaty (Oct. 27, 1795) with Spain. After military service in the American Revolutionary War, Pinckney, a younger brother of the diplomat Charles Cotesworth Pinckney, turned to law and politics. He served as governor of South Carolina (1787–89) and as president of the state convention that ratified the U.S. Constitution. As U.S. minister to Great Britain (1792–96) and envoy extraordinary to Spain in 1795, he negotiated the Treaty of San Lorenzo, or Pinckney’s Treaty. Pinckney was the unsuccessful Federalist candidate for vice president in 1796. He was a member of the U.S. House of Representatives (1797–1801) and a major general in the War of 1812. Upon retiring from public life, he practiced law and was a frequent contributor to the Southern Agriculturist. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Alexander Hamilton: Out of the cabinet …Adams for the presidency and Thomas Pinckney for the vice presidency. Because Adams did not appear devoted to Hamiltonian principles, Hamilton tried to manipulate the electoral college so as to make Pinckney president. Adams won the election, and Hamilton’s intrigue succeeded only in sowing distrust within his own party. Hamilton’s… Pinckney's Treaty Pinckney’s Treaty, (Oct. 27, 1795), agreement between Spain and the United States, fixing the southern boundary of the United States at 31° N latitude and establishing commercial arrangements favourable to the United States. U.S. citizens were accorded free navigation of the Mississippi River through… American Revolution American Revolution, (1775–83), insurrection by which 13 of Great Britain’s North American colonies won political independence and went on to form the United States of America. The war followed more than a decade of growing estrangement between the British crown and a large and influential segment… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Thomas Pinckney Quick Facts born October 23, 1750 Charleston, South Carolina died November 2, 1828 (aged 78) Charleston, South Carolina title / office house of representatives, United States (1797-1801) political affiliation Federalist Party role in American Revolution War of 1812 Pinckney’s Treaty Thomas Pinckney Additional Information More About External Websites Knowitall.org - History of SC Slide Collection - Biography of Thomas Pinckney South Carolina Encyclopedia - Thomas Pinckney Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Thomas Pinckney - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!