https://www.britannica.com/biography/Oliver-Ellsworth
Oliver Ellsworth | chief justice of United States | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents Oliver Ellsworth chief justice of United States Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction & Quick Facts Life Legacy Oliver Ellsworth chief justice of United States Written By: William R. Casto John F. Kennedy Last Updated: Apr 25, 2020 See Article History Oliver Ellsworth, (born April 29, 1745, Windsor, Conn., U.S.—died Nov. 26, 1807, Windsor), American statesman and jurist, chief author of the 1789 act establishing the U.S. federal court system. He was the third chief justice of the United States. Life Ellsworth attended Yale and the College of New Jersey (now Princeton), graduating from the latter in 1766. After pursuing theological and legal studies, he was admitted to the bar in Hartford, which he represented in the Connecticut General Assembly. He was subsequently state’s attorney for Hartford county (1777), a member of the Continental Congress (1777–83) and of the Governor’s Council of Connecticut (1780–85), and a judge on the state superior court (1785–89). Oliver and Abigail Wolcott Ellsworth, oil on canvas by Ralph Earl, 1792; in the collection of the Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art, Hartford, Conn. 193.04 cm × 220.35 cm.Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art, Gift of the Ellsworth Heirs (1903.7)/Art Resource, New York In 1787 Ellsworth, together with Roger Sherman and William Samuel Johnson, represented Connecticut at the Constitutional Convention in Philadelphia, serving as a member of the important committee on detail. At the convention, he proposed with Sherman the decisive “Connecticut compromise,” by which the federal legislature was made to consist of two houses, the upper having equal representation from each state, the lower being chosen on the basis of population. This bargain is a keystone of the U.S. federal system. To secure Southern support for the Constitution, Ellsworth supported free international trade in slaves. He also vigorously defended the Constitution at the Connecticut ratifying convention. His “Letters to a Landholder,” printed in the Connecticut Courant and the American Mercury, had a broad influence during the ratification debates, much as the Federalist papers did in New York. The Connecticut Compromise, oil on canvas by Bradley Stevens, 2006, depicting Oliver Ellsworth (left) and Roger Sherman.U.S. Senate Collection In 1789 Ellsworth became one of Connecticut’s first U.S. senators and the acknowledged Federalist leader in the U.S. Senate. He reported the first Senate rules and suggested a plan for printing the journals, shaped the conference report on the Bill of Rights, framed the measure of admission for North Carolina, helped devise the government of the territory south of the Ohio River, and drafted the first bill regulating the consular service. He was chairman of the committee to establish the federal court system and the chief author of the Federal Judiciary Act of 1789, the principal basis ever since of the U.S. court structure. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today In 1796 Pres. George Washington appointed him chief justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, after John Rutledge had failed to receive Senate confirmation and William Cushing, the senior associate justice, had declined. Ellsworth’s service on the high court was cut short in 1800 by ill health. In the 1790s Supreme Court justices also served in the circuit courts, and some of Ellsworth’s most important decisions were given on circuit. His most controversial opinion was United States v. Isaac Williams (1799), which applied in the United States the common-law rule that a citizen may not expatriate himself without the consent of his government. Oliver Ellsworth.Trumbull Collection, Yale University Art Gallery (1832.44) In 1799 he accepted Pres. John Adams’s request to join William Vans Murray and William R. Davie as commissioners to France to negotiate a new treaty. In October 1800 Ellsworth persuaded Napoleon to accept a compromise convention that provided for freedom of commerce between the two nations and in effect concluded the undeclared war between the United States and France. From France he sent his resignation as chief justice. Until his death in 1807, he lived in Windsor, Conn. Though his career included few acts of genius and little public acclaim, Ellsworth’s political skill, balanced judgment, and clarity of purpose entitle him to recognition as a founder of the highest stature. Oliver Ellsworth's home in Windsor, Conn.Connecticut Daughters of the American Revolution John F. Kennedy Legacy Ellsworth lacked the intellectual brilliance of some of his contemporaries, but, in the arena of practical politics, none of the founders was superior to—and perhaps none even equaled—him in the pragmatic art of effectively wielding power in legislative assemblies. In particular, Ellsworth had an extraordinary ability to fashion workable compromises. He had a clear, sophisticated, and detailed political philosophy and psychology, but he was not a member of the secular Enlightenment. Instead, he was a strict Calvinist who claimed that, as a young man, he had personally experienced his election by God for salvation. His entire personal and public life was ordered by a rigorous Calvinism founded upon a belief in absolute predestination. He firmly believed that everything he did was part of God’s plan for mankind. In the political realm, he enthusiastically embraced compromise as long as he was convinced of the overall righteousness of a particular project. Like all Connecticut Calvinists, Ellsworth firmly opposed slavery on religious grounds. Because he had an abiding faith that, as part of God’s plan, slavery inevitably would wither away, he had no qualms about firmly supporting the Southern states’ right to import slaves in order to gain Southern support for the Constitution at the Constitutional Convention. By the time of his mission to France in 1800, he had reluctantly concluded that the federal government was unworkable. He cherished order, but the emergence of Thomas Jefferson’s Republican Party and rifts within Ellsworth’s Federalist Party presaged disorder and even chaos. Ellsworth resigned from the national government and returned to Connecticut, where he was an active participant in state politics for the rest of his life. William R. Casto Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Connecticut: The Revolutionary period …Sherman of New Haven and Oliver Ellsworth of Windsor offered the Connecticut (or Great) Compromise, which served the interests of both large and small states by suggesting a bicameral legislature with one house based on population and the other on equal state representation. As the country began to expand westward… Judiciary Act of 1789 …was principally authored by Senators Oliver Ellsworth and William Paterson and signed into law by Pres. George Washington on September 24, 1789. The act’s creators, by essentially all accounts, viewed it as a work in progress. Although indeed amended throughout the years, the basic outline it provided has remained largely… court Court, a person or body of persons having judicial authority to hear and resolve disputes in civil, criminal, ecclesiastical, or military cases. The word court, which originally meant simply an enclosed place, also denotes the chamber, hall, building, or other place where judicial proceedings are… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Oliver Ellsworth Quick Facts View Media Page born April 29, 1745 Windsor, Connecticut (Born on this day) died November 26, 1807 (aged 62) Windsor, Connecticut title / office supreme court, United States (1796-1800) Supreme Court of the United States, United States (1796-1800) United States Senate, United States (1789-1796) Continental Congress, United States (1777-1783) political affiliation Federalist Party role in Constitutional Convention Judiciary Act of 1789 Oliver Ellsworth Additional Information More About Additional Reading External Websites Oyez - Biography of Oliver Ellsworth Acton Institute - Biography of Oliver Ellsworth Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Oliver Ellsworth - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!