https://www.britannica.com/biography/James-Iredell
James Iredell | United States jurist | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 James Iredell United States jurist Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter James Iredell United States jurist Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History James Iredell, (born Oct. 5, 1751, Lewes, Sussex, Eng.—died Oct. 20, 1799, Edenton, N.C., U.S.), associate justice of the United States Supreme Court (1790–99). At the age of 17 Iredell was appointed comptroller of the customhouse at Edenton, N.C., to which his father, formerly a Bristol merchant, had migrated. He studied law and became active in the American cause. Although hopeful as late as June 1776 for a reconciliation with Britain, he worked as one of the commissioners to draft and revise the laws of the new state of North Carolina. He served briefly as a superior-court judge and as state attorney general and, in 1787, was charged by the legislature to codify the state’s statutes; “Iredell’s Revisal” appeared in 1791. He was a leader of the North Carolina Federalists in supporting ratification of the Constitution, and his letters in its defense (published over the name Marcus) are said to have prompted President George Washington to appoint him to the U.S. Supreme Court. He was the original court’s youngest member. Iredell’s opinion in Calder v. Bull (1798) helped establish the principle of judicial review five years before it was actually tested in Marbury v. Madison. He is, however, remembered primarily for his dissents, most notably that in Chisholm v. Georgia (1793), which maintained that an action of assumpsit could lie against a state only by authority of the Constitution, thus lending weight to the campaign for the 11th Amendment. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Iredell’s health failed less than 10 years after his appointment, in large part as a result of the travel and strain of holding circuit courts, which at the time was required of Supreme Court justices. This article was most recently revised and updated by Amy Tikkanen, Corrections Manager. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Chisholm v. Georgia Chisholm v. Georgia, (1793), U.S. Supreme Court case distinguished for at least two reasons: (1) it showed an early intention by the Court to involve itself in political matters concerning both the state and federal governments, and (2) it led to the adoption of the Eleventh Amendment, which forbade a… Supreme Court of the United States Supreme Court of the United States, final court of appeal and final expositor of the Constitution of the United States. Within the framework of litigation, the Supreme Court marks the boundaries of authority between state and nation, state and state, and government and citizen. The Supreme Court… Democratizing the U.S. Supreme Court The U.S. Supreme Court is neither democratic nor easily changed, to some Americans’ delight and others’ dismay. No one would seriously propose that we elect justices—just take a look at the tawdry contests in states that put their supreme courts and various judicial posts on the ballot. But is the… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. James Iredell Quick Facts born October 5, 1751 Lewes, England died October 20, 1799 (aged 48) Edenton, North Carolina title / office Supreme Court of the United States, United States (1790-1799) supreme court, United States (1790-1799) role in Chisholm v. Georgia James Iredell Additional Information External Websites NCpedia - Biography of James Iredell Oyez - Biography of James Iredell North Carolina History Project - Biography of James Iredell Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. James Iredell - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!