https://www.britannica.com/biography/Charles-Cotesworth-Pinckney
Charles Cotesworth Pinckney | American statesman | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Charles Cotesworth Pinckney American statesman Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Charles Cotesworth Pinckney American statesman Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Charles Cotesworth Pinckney, (born Feb. 25, 1746, Charleston, S.C. [U.S.]—died Aug. 16, 1825, Charleston), American soldier, statesman, and diplomat who participated in the XYZ Affair, an unsavory diplomatic incident with France in 1798. Pinckney entered public service in 1769 as a member of the South Carolina Assembly. He served in the first South Carolina Provincial Congress (1775) and later in both houses of the South Carolina legislature. During the American Revolution he was an aide to General George Washington at Brandywine and Germantown, Pa. (both 1777), and later commanded a regiment at Savannah, Ga.; he was promoted to brigadier general in 1783. He took part in the Constitutional Convention of 1787, along with his cousin Charles Pinckney. Pinckney was appointed minister to France (1796) but was refused recognition by the French Directory and left Paris for Amsterdam. He returned to Paris the following year as a member of a commission that included John Marshall and Elbridge Gerry. When one of the group of French negotiators (later referred to in the correspondence as “X,Y, and Z”) suggested that the U.S. representatives offer a gift, Pinckney is said to have replied, “No! No! Not a sixpence!” No treaty was negotiated, and an undeclared war with France ensued. Upon his return home Pinckney was made a major general. An unsuccessful Federalist candidate for vice president in 1800 and for president in 1804 and 1808, Pinckney spent his later years in law practice. XYZ AffairBritish engraving satirizing Franco-American relations after the XYZ Affair. Frenchmen plunder female "America," while five figures (lower right) representing other European countries look on. John Bull (England) sits laughing on "Shakespeare's Cliff."British Cartoon Prints Collection, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (Digital File Number: cph 3g02711) This article was most recently revised and updated by Chelsey Parrott-Sheffer, Research Editor. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States presidential election of 1800: The electoral college vote …Federalist side Adams ran with Charles Cotesworth Pinckney, while Jefferson’s running mate was Aaron Burr.… United States presidential election of 1804 soundly defeated Federalist candidate Charles C. Pinckney with 162 electoral votes to Pinckney’s 14.… United States presidential election of 1808 defeated Federalist Charles Cotesworth Pinckney .… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Charles Cotesworth Pinckney Quick Facts View Media Page born February 25, 1746 Charleston, South Carolina died August 16, 1825 (aged 79) Charleston, South Carolina role in American Revolution Constitutional Convention XYZ Affair Charles Cotesworth Pinckney Additional Information More About External Websites Digital South Carolina Encyclopedia - Biography of Charles Cotesworth Pinckney Knowitall.org - Forgotten Founders - Biography of Charles Pinckney Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Charles Cotesworth Pinckney - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!