https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1800
United States presidential election of 1800 | Candidates, Results, & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1800 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction The electoral college vote The House of Representatives chooses Results of the 1800 election United States presidential election of 1800 United States government Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History United States presidential election of 1800, American presidential election held in 1800 in which Democratic-Republican Thomas Jefferson was elected as the country’s third president. American presidential election, 1800Results of the American presidential election, 1800 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes1 1Electors were chosen by legislatures in many states, not by popular vote. 2As both Jefferson and Burr received the same number of electoral votes, the decision was referred to the House of Representatives. The 12th Amendment (1804) provided that electors cast separate ballots for president and vice president. Thomas Jefferson Democratic-Republican 732 Aaron Burr Democratic-Republican 73 John Adams Federalist 65 Charles Cotesworth Pinckney Federalist 64 John Jay Federalist 1 Source: United States Office of the Federal Register.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The electoral college vote The Framers had viewed political parties with suspicion, but by the 1790s party politics had taken root—and with it the interests of party organizations began to exert influence. In 1796 the Federalist Party supported John Adams for president, but it split its vote such that Jefferson, the Democratic-Republican candidate, earned the second greatest number of votes, thereby securing the post of vice president (electors cast two ballots originally without designating a presidential or vice presidential choice). Adams thus governed during his presidency with the leader of the opposition as his vice president. John AdamsJohn Adams, oil on canvas by Gilbert Stuart, c. 1800–15; in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C. 73.7 × 61 cm.Courtesy National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C., Gift of Mrs. Robert Homans, 1954.7.1 The 1800 election was a rematch between Adams and Jefferson, and to forestall the recurrence of the same situation from the 1796 election, the parties sought to ensure that all their electors were united. On the Federalist side Adams ran with Charles Cotesworth Pinckney, while Jefferson’s running mate was Aaron Burr. Jefferson, ThomasThomas Jefferson, oil on wood by Gilbert Stuart, c. 1821; in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C. 66 × 54.5 cm.Courtesy National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C., Gift of Thomas Jefferson Coolidge IV in memory of his great-grandfather, Thomas Jefferson Coolidge, his grandfather, Thomas Jefferson Coolidge II, and his father, Thomas Jefferson Coolidge III, 1986.71. As in the previous elections, there was no popular vote. Instead, the state legislatures appointed electors, and the Democratic-Republicans swept most of the South, including all the electors from Georgia, Kentucky, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Virginia, while Adams ran strong in the northeast, capturing all the electoral votes from Connecticut, Delaware, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, Rhode Island, and Vermont. With Burr, a New Yorker, on the ticket, Jefferson won that state, and the electors from the remaining states (Maryland, North Carolina, and Pennsylvania) split their votes. The Federalists, realizing the potential for a tie, arranged for one of their electors, from Rhode Island, to cast a ballot for John Jay. All of the Democratic-Republican electors, however, cast their ballots for Jefferson and Burr, and since electors could not indicate a presidential or vice presidential choice, the result was a tie. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today The House of Representatives chooses Under the existing rules, a tie was to be decided by the lame-duck Federalist-controlled House of Representatives, with each of the 16 states casting a single vote. Almost all the Federalists wanted to coalesce behind Burr rather than elect their political enemy Jefferson, but Alexander Hamilton, a Federalist and longtime enemy of Burr’s, tried to engineer support for Jefferson. Still, Burr maintained that he would not challenge Jefferson—an assertion that Jefferson did not wholly accept. Voting in the House of Representatives began on Feb. 11, 1801, and on the first ballot Jefferson was the choice of eight states, while Burr was supported by six (all with a Federalist majority among their congressional representatives), and two were split. After more than 30 more ballots held over the next several days, the results were the same. Finally, after 36 ballots and with Federalists in Maryland and Vermont abstaining, giving those states to Jefferson, Jefferson was elected president (with Burr as vice president) on February 17 by a majority of 10 states to 4 (Delaware and South Carolina cast blank votes). The election was a catalyst for the adoption of the Twelfth Amendment (1804), under which electors would cast separate ballots for president and vice president. For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1796. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1804. Results of the 1800 election The results of the 1800 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1800 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes* *Electors were chosen by legislatures in many states, not by popular vote. **As both Jefferson and Burr received the same number of electoral votes, the decision was referred to the House of Representatives. The 12th Amendment (1804) provided that electors cast separate ballots for president and vice president. Source: United States Office of the Federal Register. Thomas Jefferson Democratic-Republican 73** Aaron Burr Democratic-Republican 73 John Adams Federalist 65 Charles Cotesworth Pinckney Federalist 64 John Jay Federalist 1 This article was most recently revised and updated by Amy Tikkanen, Corrections Manager. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Thomas Jefferson: Party politics …reached a crescendo in the election of 1800, one of the most fiercely contested campaigns in American history. (See primary source document: Jefferson and Liberty.) The Federalist press described Jefferson as a pagan and atheist, a treasonable conspirator against the duly elected administrations of Washington and Adams, a utopian dreamer… Aaron Burr: Political career: U.S. Senate and vice presidency In 1800 Burr won the vice presidential nomination on the Jeffersonian Republican ticket. He carried New York state and thus helped bring about a national victory for his party. Under the electoral college procedures then prevailing, the electors had cast their votes for both Thomas Jefferson… Burr-Hamilton duel: Background …notable example occurred during the 1800 presidential election, in which Burr was Thomas Jefferson’s vice presidential running mate on the Democratic-Republican ticket. Due to quirks in the election process, Burr tied with Jefferson in the electoral college vote, and he chose to vie with Jefferson for the top office. As… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1800 Quick Facts participants John Adams Aaron Burr John Jay Thomas Jefferson Charles Cotesworth Pinckney related topics Federalist Party Democratic-Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1800 Additional Information More About External Websites The Lehrman Institute - History - The Election of 1800-1801 History Central - United States Presidential Election of 1800 Maps of World - United States Presidential Election of 1800 HistoryNet - The Revolution of 1800: The Presidential Election that Tested the United States National Archives - 1800 Presidential Election Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!