https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1804
United States presidential election of 1804 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1804 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction Electoral college difficulties The election Results of the 1804 election United States presidential election of 1804 United States government Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History United States presidential election of 1804, American presidential election held in 1804, in which Democratic-Republican incumbent Thomas Jefferson soundly defeated Federalist candidate Charles C. Pinckney with 162 electoral votes to Pinckney’s 14. American presidential election, 1804Results of the American presidential election, 1804 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes1 1Electors were chosen by legislatures in many states, not by popular vote. Thomas Jefferson Democratic-Republican 162 Charles Cotesworth Pinckney Federalist 14 Source: United States Office of the Federal Register.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Electoral college difficulties Prior to the 1804 presidential election, each elector in the electoral college cast votes for two candidates without specifying which was to be president and which was to be vice president. The candidate with the second greatest number of votes became vice president. However, in the 1800 presidential election, Jefferson tied with his party’s vice presidential candidate, Aaron Burr. The tie had been engineered by the Democratic-Republicans to ensure that both positions were filled by members of their party after the 1796 election had seated Federalist candidate John Adams as president and Jefferson as vice president. Burr, though, refused to cede the presidency to Jefferson, and only after 36 ballots in the House of Representatives was Jefferson elected president, with Burr as his vice president. In order to obviate this sort of debacle in future elections, the Twelfth Amendment to the Constitution, which established separate votes for president and vice president, was passed in 1804. The election Jefferson was well positioned to secure a second term in 1804. He had successfully maintained the conciliatory tone established in his 1801 inaugural address—in which he famously stated, “We are all republicans—we are all federalists”—with a moderate policy agenda that helped to bridge the partisan divide between the Federalists, whom he had narrowly defeated, and the Democratic-Republicans. Additionally, his shrewd negotiation of the 1803 Louisiana Purchase had bloodlessly doubled the size of the United States and cleared the way for Western expansion while simultaneously reducing French presence in the New World. Nonetheless, he encountered continued resistance from the bastions of New England Federalists that rallied behind Burr, who had defected to the Federalists after having been forced to accept the vice presidency. Burr’s support dissolved after he killed Alexander Hamilton in a duel in July 1804, and Jefferson, with New York Gov. George Clinton as his vice president, captured all but Connecticut, Delaware, and two of Maryland’s votes in the electoral college. For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1800. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1808. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Results of the 1804 election The results of the 1804 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1804 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes* *Electors were chosen by legislatures in many states, not by popular vote. Source: United States Office of the Federal Register. Thomas Jefferson Democratic-Republican 162 Charles Cotesworth Pinckney Federalist 14 This article was most recently revised and updated by Richard Pallardy, Research Editor. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Thomas Jefferson: Presidency In 1804 Jefferson was easily reelected over Federalist Charles Cotesworth Pinckney, winning 162 electoral votes to Pinckney’s 14. Initially, at least, his policies as president reflected his desire for decentralization, which meant dismantling the embryonic federal government, the army and navy, and all federal taxation programs,… Democratic-Republican Party Democratic-Republican Party, first opposition political party in the United States. Organized in 1792 as the Republican Party, its members held power nationally between 1801 and 1825. It was the direct antecedent of the present Democratic Party. During the two administrations of President George Washington (1789–97), many former… Thomas Jefferson Thomas Jefferson, draftsman of the Declaration of Independence of the United States and the nation’s first secretary of state (1789–94) and second vice president (1797–1801) and, as the third president (1801–09),… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1804 Quick Facts date November 13, 1804 participants George Clinton Thomas Jefferson Rufus King Charles Cotesworth Pinckney related topics Federalist Party Democratic-Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1804 Additional Information More About External Websites United States History - United States presidential election of 1804 Maps of World - United States Presidential Election of 1804 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!