https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1808
United States presidential election of 1808 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1808 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction Candidates and issues The election Results of the 1808 election United States presidential election of 1808 United States government Written By: John M. Cunningham See Article History United States presidential election of 1808, American presidential election held in 1808, in which Democratic-Republican candidate James Madison defeated Federalist Charles Cotesworth Pinckney . American presidential election, 1808Results of the American presidential election, 1808 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes1 1Electors were chosen by legislatures in many states, not by popular vote. James Madison Democratic-Republican 122 Charles Cotesworth Pinckney Federalist 47 George Clinton Independent-Republican 6 (Not voted) 1 Source: United States Office of the Federal Register.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Candidates and issues Deciding not to run for reelection, Pres. Thomas Jefferson unofficially anointed James Madison, his secretary of state and fellow Virginian, as his successor. As an architect of the U.S. Constitution and Jefferson’s principal adviser, Madison appeared to be an ideal presidential candidate. However, widespread dissatisfaction with the Embargo Act of 1807—a foreign-policy maneuver contrived by Jefferson and Madison that had had unintended deleterious effects on the U.S. economy—led to fractiousness within the Democrat-Republican Party. At the party’s congressional nominating caucus in January 1808, Madison emerged triumphant despite opposition from supporters of former foreign minister James Monroe and Vice Pres. George Clinton . Clinton, who had boycotted the caucus, was nominated to continue as vice president, in part to undermine his presidential ambitions. James MadisonJames Madison, detail of an oil painting by Asher B. Durand, 1833; in the collection of The New-York Historical Society.Collection of The New-York Historical Society Meanwhile, the Federalist Party criticized the Embargo Act even more forcefully and accused Madison of deliberately working against American interests. At the party’s caucus in September, Gen. Charles C. Pinckney of South Carolina was selected as the presidential nominee, and former U.S. ambassador and New York senator Rufus King was nominated for vice president—the same ticket the Federalists had put forth in 1804. Charles Cotesworth PinckneyBettmann/Corbis The election Although the Federalists found favour in New England, a traditional party stronghold where the local mercantile industry had been economically crippled by the Embargo Act, the Democrat-Republicans’ superior political organization and numerous newspaper endorsements provided them with a broader base of support. In the end, Madison earned a decisive victory in the contest, with 122 electoral votes to Pinckney’s 47. Clinton, who was reelected vice president, managed an additional six votes for president from his home state of New York. While the Federalists achieved greater electoral success than they had in the previous election, carrying all states in New England except Vermont, the overall results confirmed the ascendancy of the Democrat-Republican Party. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1804. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1812. John M. Cunningham Results of the 1808 election The results of the 1808 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1808 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes* *Electors were chosen by legislatures in many states, not by popular vote. Source: United States Office of the Federal Register. James Madison Democratic-Republican 122 Charles Cotesworth Pinckney Federalist 47 George Clinton Independent-Republican 6 (not voted) 1 Learn More in these related Britannica articles: James Madison: Madison’s presidency …and England, Madison won the presidency in 1808 by publishing his vigorous diplomatic dispatches (see primary source document: First Inaugural Address). Faced with a senatorial cabal on taking office, he made a senator’s lacklustre brother, Robert Smith, secretary of state and wrote all important diplomatic letters for two years before… Democratic-Republican Party Democratic-Republican Party, first opposition political party in the United States. Organized in 1792 as the Republican Party, its members held power nationally between 1801 and 1825. It was the direct antecedent of the present Democratic Party. During the two administrations of President George Washington (1789–97), many former… James Madison James Madison, fourth president of the United States (1809–17) and one of the Founding Fathers of his country. At the Constitutional Convention (1787), he influenced… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1808 Quick Facts date 1808 participants George Clinton Rufus King James Madison Charles Cotesworth Pinckney related topics Federalist Party Democratic-Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1808 Additional Information More About External Websites Maps of World - United States Presidential Election of 1808 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!