https://www.britannica.com/biography/James-Madison
James Madison | Biography, Founding Father, & Presidency | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents James Madison president of United States Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction & Quick Facts Early life and political activities The father of the Constitution Madison’s presidency Later life Cabinet of President James Madison James Madison president of United States Written By: Irving Brant Last Updated: Apr 17, 2020 See Article History Alternative Titles: James Madison, Jr. Learn how the father of the Constitution sponsored the Bill of Rights and led the U.S. through the War of 1812An overview of James Madison.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article James Madison, in full James Madison, Jr., (born March 16 [March 5, Old Style], 1751, Port Conway, Virginia [U.S.] —died June 28, 1836, Montpelier, Virginia, U.S. ), fourth president of the United States (1809–17) and one of the Founding Fathers of his country. At the Constitutional Convention (1787), he influenced the planning and ratification of the U.S. Constitution and collaborated with Alexander Hamilton and John Jay in the publication of the Federalist papers. As a member of the new House of Representatives, he sponsored the first 10 amendments to the Constitution, commonly called the Bill of Rights. He was secretary of state under President Thomas Jefferson when the Louisiana Territory was purchased from France. The War of 1812 was fought during his presidency. Key events in the life of James Madison.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Top Questions What is James Madison best known for? James Madison created the basic framework for the U.S. Constitution and helped write the Bill of Rights. He is therefore known as the Father of the Constitution. He served as the fourth U.S. president, and he signed a declaration of war against Great Britain, starting the War of 1812. What did James Madison accomplish? Besides creating the basic outline for the U.S. Constitution, James Madison was one of the authors of the Federalist papers. As secretary of state under Pres. Thomas Jefferson, he oversaw the Louisiana Purchase. He and Jefferson founded the Democratic-Republican Party. After leaving the presidency, he wrote the Virginia Resolutions opposing the Alien and Sedition Acts. What was James Madison’s education? James Madison was privately educated before attending the College of New Jersey, which became Princeton University, where he studied classical languages, mathematics, rhetoric, geography, and philosophy as well as Hebrew and political philosophy. How did James Madison get into politics? James Madison was elected to Virginia’s 1776 Revolutionary convention, where he drafted a guarantee of religious freedom. He was later appointed to the Virginia Council of State, and in 1780 he was elected as the youngest member of the Continental Congress. Early life and political activities Madison was born at the home of his maternal grandmother. The son and namesake of a leading Orange county landowner and squire, he maintained his lifelong home in Virginia at Montpelier, near the Blue Ridge Mountains. In 1769 he rode horseback to the College of New Jersey (Princeton University), selected for its hostility to episcopacy. He completed the four-year course in two years, finding time also to demonstrate against England and to lampoon members of a rival literary society in ribald verse. Overwork produced several years of epileptoid hysteria and premonitions of early death, which thwarted military training but did not prevent home study of public law, mixed with early advocacy of independence (1774) and furious denunciation of the imprisonment of nearby Dissenters from the established Anglican church. Madison never became a church member, but in maturity he expressed a preference for Unitarianism. Madison, James: home in Montpelier, VirginiaJames Madison's home in Montpelier, Virginia.© Jhernan124/Dreamstime.com His health improved, and he was elected to Virginia’s 1776 Revolutionary convention, where he drafted the state’s guarantee of religious freedom. In the convention-turned-legislature he helped Thomas Jefferson disestablish the church but lost reelection by refusing to furnish the electors with free whiskey. After two years on the governor’s council, he was sent to the Continental Congress in March 1780. Five feet four inches tall and weighing about 100 pounds, small boned, boyish in appearance, and weak of voice, he waited six months before taking the floor, but strong actions belied his mild demeanour. He rose quickly to leadership against the devotees of state sovereignty and enemies of Franco-U.S. collaboration in peace negotiations, contending also for the establishment of the Mississippi as a western territorial boundary and the right to navigate that river through its Spanish-held delta. Defending Virginia’s charter title to the vast Northwest against states that had no claim to western territories and whose major motive was to validate barrel-of-rum purchases from Indian tribes, Madison defeated the land speculators by persuading Virginia to cede the western lands to Congress as a national heritage. Peale, Charles Willson: portrait of James MadisonJames Madison, watercolour on ivory by Charles Willson Peale, 1783.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (cph 3g04098) Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Following the ratification of the Articles of Confederation in 1781, Madison undertook to strengthen the Union by asserting implied power in Congress to enforce financial requisitions upon the states by military coercion. This move failing, he worked unceasingly for an amendment conferring power to raise revenue and wrote an eloquent address adjuring the states to avert national disintegration by ratifying the submitted article. The chevalier de la Luzerne, French minister to the United States, wrote that Madison was “regarded as the man of the soundest judgment in Congress.” James Madison Quick Facts View Media Page born March 16, 1751 Port Conway, Virginia died June 28, 1836 (aged 85) Montpelier, Virginia title / office presidency of the United States of America, United States (1809-1817) House of Representatives, United States (1789-1797) Continental Congress, United States (1780-1783) political affiliation Democratic-Republican Party role in War of 1812 nullification crisis Constitutional Convention Virginia and Kentucky Resolutions awards and honors Hall of Fame for Great Americans (1905) notable family members spouse Dolley Madison Load Next Page James Madison Additional Information More About Additional Reading Quotes External Websites The White House - Biography of James Madison United States History - Biography of James Madison American History Central - Biography of James Madison USA 4 Kids - Biography of James Madison Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. James Madison - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) James Madison - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!