https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1812
United States presidential election of 1812 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1812 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction A wartime election Results of the 1812 election United States presidential election of 1812 United States government Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History United States presidential election of 1812, American presidential election held in 1812, in which James Madison defeated DeWitt Clinton. American presidential election, 1812Results of the American presidential election, 1812 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes1 1Electors were chosen by legislatures in many states, not by popular vote. James Madison Democratic-Republican 128 DeWitt Clinton Fusion 89 (Not voted) 1 Source: United States Office of the Federal Register.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. A wartime election Madison had won a first term overwhelmingly in 1808, and his presidency was—and would continue to be—dominated by foreign affairs. In 1810 he had proclaimed nonintercourse with Britain, ceasing trade and promising war if the British did not cease seizure of American goods and vessels. Though tensions grew, Madison sought peace. By 1812, however, Madison was under pressure from the so-called War Hawks to make good on his promise. In June the War of 1812 was declared, creating a wartime backdrop for the election. Madison was renominated for president by the Democratic-Republican congressional caucus in May 1812, but some one-third of the members refused to attend. Some of the dissident Democratic-Republican lawmakers rallied around DeWitt Clinton, the mayor New York City and a former U.S. senator. In New England and Virginia the failing Federalist Party proposed candidates to run against Madison, but in the end they were forced to throw in their lot with Clinton. Madison, JamesJames Madison.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Clinton, DeWittDeWitt Clinton, detail of an oil painting by John Wesley Jarvis; in the National Portrait Gallery, Washington, D.C.National Portrait Gallery, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C.; transfer from the National Gallery of Art; gift of the A.W. Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust, 1942 (NPG.65.53) In the pro-war South, Clinton was touted as a warrior, and in New England his campaign emphasized his dedication to peace. However, in the end he was not able to garner enough support to secure the election. Madison took all the southern and western states, winning 128 electoral votes, while Clinton won much of the antiwar north, capturing only 89 electoral votes. Madison, the country’s first wartime president, dealt with the state of the war with Britain in his second inaugural address For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1808. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1816. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Results of the 1812 election The results of the 1812 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1812 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes* *Electors were chosen by legislatures in many states, not by popular vote. Source: United States Office of the Federal Register. James Madison Democratic-Republican 128 DeWitt Clinton Fusion 89 (not voted) 1 This article was most recently revised and updated by Alison Eldridge, Digital Content Manager. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: James Madison: Madison’s presidency He was reelected in 1812, despite strong opposition and the vigorous candidacy of DeWitt Clinton (see primary source document: Second Inaugural Address).… James Madison James Madison, fourth president of the United States (1809–17) and one of the Founding Fathers of his country. At the Constitutional Convention (1787), he influenced… DeWitt Clinton DeWitt Clinton, American political leader who promulgated the idea of the Erie Canal, which connects the Hudson River to the Great Lakes.… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1812 Quick Facts date 1812 participants DeWitt Clinton James Madison related topics Democratic-Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1812 Additional Information More About Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!