https://www.britannica.com/biography/DeWitt-Clinton-American-politician
DeWitt Clinton | American politician | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 DeWitt Clinton American politician Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter DeWitt Clinton American politician Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History DeWitt Clinton, (born March 2, 1769, Little Britain, N.Y. [U.S.]—died Feb. 11, 1828, Albany, N.Y., U.S.), American political leader who promulgated the idea of the Erie Canal, which connects the Hudson River to the Great Lakes. DeWitt Clinton was the nephew of Governor George Clinton of New York. A Republican (Jeffersonian) attorney, he served as state senator (1798–1802, 1806–11), U.S. senator (1802–03), mayor of New York City (1803–15 except for two annual terms), and lieutenant governor (1811–13). As mayor of New York City, he advocated free and widespread public education, promoted legislation that removed voting restrictions against Roman Catholics, and established various public-welfare institutions in the city. He was an unsuccessful presidential candidate in 1812, being defeated by James Madison. In 1811 Clinton introduced a bill into the New York Senate to appoint a commission to explore suggested routes for a canal across New York state to link the Northeast coastal trade with the Great Lakes via Lake Erie. He and Gouverneur Morris, chairman of the commission, were sent to Washington, D.C., to seek federal aid for the project but were unsuccessful. After the War of 1812 ended (1814), the canal idea was revived, and Clinton went to the state capital at Albany, urging acceptance of a detailed canal plan. After much persuasion, the legislature agreed to finance the canal as a state project (April 1816) and appointed Clinton to the commission. Elected governor at this opportune time and serving almost continuously (1817–23, 1825–28) until his death, he was in an advantageous position to oversee the entire project. As bitter opposition to his administration developed under Martin Van Buren and Tammany Hall, Clinton refused to run for a third term in 1822. But his dismissal as canal commissioner in 1824 caused such indignation statewide that he was swept into the governorship the next year and served until his death. With the opening of the Erie Canal on Oct. 25, 1825, Clinton assured the 19th-century development of New York City as the major port of trade with the Midwest. Clinton, DeWittDeWitt Clinton, oil on canvas by John Wesley Jarvis, c. 1820; in the New-York Historical Society. 123.2 × 92.7 cm.Photograph by _cck_. New-York Historical Society, gift of the heirs of Samuel S. Howland, 1854.1 Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Clinton was also profoundly interested in the arts and the natural sciences, and he published an excellent summary of the state of scientific knowledge in the United States in a work entitled An Introductory Discourse (1814). This article was most recently revised and updated by Virginia Gorlinski, Associate Editor. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Erie Canal: Design and construction In particular, DeWitt Clinton had promoted the idea of a western canal as early as 1811 while serving in the New York state senate. He won preliminary legislative approval in 1816 and was named commissioner for the project. In 1817, following election as governor of New York,… United States presidential election of 1812 >DeWitt Clinton.… New York City 1970s overview In the early 1970s the city of New York lapsed into bankruptcy, and the music business completed its move west, centring on Los Angeles. When New York City’s musical resurgence occurred at the end of the decade, it owed little to the tradition of craftsmanship in songwriting, engineering, and… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. DeWitt Clinton Quick Facts View Media Page born March 2, 1769 Little Britain, New York died February 11, 1828 (aged 58) Albany, New York title / office United States Senate, United States (1802-1803) DeWitt Clinton Additional Information More About Additional Reading External Websites United States History - Biography of DeWitt Clinton Empire State Plaza and New York State Capitol - Hall of Governors - Biography of DeWitt Clinton Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. DeWitt Clinton - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!