https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1816
United States presidential election of 1816 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1816 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction Federalist collapse Democratic-Republican victory Results of the 1816 election United States presidential election of 1816 United States government Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History United States presidential election of 1816, American presidential election held in 1816, in which Democratic-Republican James Monroe defeated Federalist Rufus King with 183 electoral votes to King’s 34. American presidential election, 1816Results of the American presidential election, 1816 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes1 1Electors were chosen by legislatures in many states, not by popular vote. James Monroe Democratic-Republican 183 Rufus King Federalist 34 (Not voted) 4 Source: United States Office of the Federal Register.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Federalist collapse As James Madison prepared to leave office following his second term as president, the election of another Democratic-Republican was all but assured. The Federalist opposition was in shambles, in part because of the backfiring of the Dec. 15, 1814–Jan. 5, 1815, Hartford Convention, a secret meeting of Federalist delegates from several states that had opposed Madison’s mercantile policies and the War of 1812. The party—already viewed as elitist—was dealt a death blow by the signing of the Treaty of Ghent, which ended the war, in the midst of the convention they had engineered to condemn it. Though James Monroe was considered the early Democratic-Republican favourite, dissenters within his party disputed his anointment. While Monroe was popular because of his status as one of the Founding Fathers, some were rankled by his Virginia provenance; aside from John Adams, the previous presidents were also from Virginia. Democratic-Republican victory Monroe’s main opponent for the nomination was Secretary of War William H. Crawford of Georgia. Not wanting Monroe as an enemy, Crawford remained publically amibiguous about his ambitions. However, political wrangling on his behalf set him up as the alternative candidate when the congressional caucus to select the candidate met in March 1816. Monroe emerged victorious with 65 votes to Crawford’s 54. Monroe’s supporters had hoped to avoid such a narrow victory with their ultimately unsuccessful attempt to abolish the caucus system in favour of party representatives in state legislatures choosing the party’s nominee. New York Gov. Daniel D. Tompkins was maneuvered into the vice presidential slot by New York politicians—including Martin Van Buren. The fragmented Federalists put forth two-time vice presidential candidate Rufus King as their nominee, not even bothering to formally pair him with a vice presidential candidate. Their halfhearted efforts reflected the inevitability of Monroe’s win in November. Mug with James Monroe's name misspelled, c. 1818.Collection of David J. and Janice L. Frent For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1812. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1820. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Results of the 1816 election The results of the 1816 presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1816 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes* *Electors were chosen by legislatures in many states, not by popular vote. Source: United States Office of the Federal Register. James Monroe Democratic-Republican 183 Rufus King Federalist 34 (not voted) 4 This article was most recently revised and updated by Richard Pallardy, Research Editor. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: James Monroe: Presidency In 1816 Monroe was elected president of the United States as the Republican candidate, defeating Rufus King, the Federalist candidate; Monroe received 183 electoral votes and King 34. By 1820, when he was reelected, receiving all the electoral votes but one, the Federalists had ceased to function as a… Democratic-Republican Party Democratic-Republican Party, first opposition political party in the United States. Organized in 1792 as the Republican Party, its members held power nationally between 1801 and 1825. It was the direct antecedent of the present Democratic Party. During the two administrations of President George Washington (1789–97), many former… James Monroe James Monroe, fifth president of the United States (1817–25), who issued an important contribution to U.S. foreign policy in the Monroe Doctrine, a warning to European nations against intervening in the Western Hemisphere. The… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1816 Quick Facts date 1816 participants Rufus King James Monroe Daniel D. Tompkins related topics Federalist Party Democratic-Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1816 Additional Information More About External Websites Maps of World - U.S Presidential Election 1816 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!