https://www.britannica.com/biography/Rufus-King
Rufus King | American statesman | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Rufus King American statesman Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Rufus King American statesman Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Apr 25, 2020 See Article History Rufus King, (born March 24, 1755, Scarborough, Massachusetts [U.S.]—died April 29, 1827, Jamaica, New York, U.S.), a Founding Father of the United States who helped frame the federal Constitution and effect its ratification. An active Federalist senator and able diplomat, he ran unsuccessfully for vice president (1804, 1808) and for president (1816). After graduating from Harvard in 1777, he began a career in law, being admitted to the bar in 1780. He served in the state legislature (1783–84) and in the Continental Congress (1784–87), where he introduced the resolution (February 21, 1787) calling for a convention at Philadelphia to draft a new Constitution. An eloquent advocate of a strong central government, he signed the new document and contributed substantially to its acceptance in Massachusetts. In the Continental Congress he introduced a resolution (1785) that would prohibit slavery in the Northwest Territory—a provision included permanently in the Ordinance of 1787, which set the pattern for future standards in the territories. In 1788 King moved to New York where, after a year in the state assembly, he was elected one of its first U.S. senators (1789–96) and became a recognized Federalist leader in Congress. Sharing the Anglophile sentiments of his party, King went on to represent the new nation with tact yet firmness as ambassador to Great Britain for eight years (1796–1803) and again in 1825–26. During the period of domination by the (Jeffersonian) Democratic-Republican Party, King served once more in the Senate (1813–25) but received only a modest proportion of electoral votes for the nation’s highest offices on three different occasions. This article was most recently revised and updated by Amy Tikkanen, Corrections Manager. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States presidential election of 1816 Monroe defeated Federalist Rufus King with 183 electoral votes to King’s 34.… Constitution of the United States of America Constitution of the United States of America, the fundamental law of the U.S. federal system of government and a landmark document of the Western world. The oldest written national constitution in use, the Constitution defines the principal organs of government and their jurisdictions and the basic rights of citizens. (For… Federalist Party Federalist Party, early U.S. national political party that advocated a strong central government and held power from 1789 to 1801, during the rise of the country’s political party system. The term federalist was first used in 1787 to describe the supporters of the newly written Constitution, who emphasized the federal… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Rufus King Quick Facts born March 24, 1755 Scarborough, Massachusetts died April 29, 1827 (aged 72) Jamaica Bay, New York (Died on this day) title / office United States Senate, United States (1813-1825) United States Senate, United States (1789-1796) Continental Congress, United States (1784-1787) political affiliation Federalist Party role in Constitutional Convention Rufus King Additional Information More About External Websites U.S. Army Center of Military History - Biography of Rufus King Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Rufus King - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!