https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1820
United States presidential election of 1820 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1820 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction One-candidate race Monroe’s reelection Results of the 1820 election United States presidential election of 1820 United States government Written By: John M. Cunningham See Article History United States presidential election of 1820, American presidential election, held in 1820, in which the Democratic-Republican James Monroe won reelection in a campaign in which he effectively ran unopposed. American presidential election, 1820Results of the American presidential election, 1820 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes1 1Electors were chosen by legislatures in many states, not by popular vote. James Monroe Democratic-Republican 231 John Quincy Adams Independent-Republican 1 (Not voted) 3 Source: United States Office of the Federal Register.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. One-candidate race With few exceptions, such as the financial panic of 1819 and the ongoing dilemma over the status of slavery in new states and territories (which was temporarily resolved by the Missouri Compromise), James Monroe’s first term as president was characterized by a pronounced lack of conflict or disruption. In fact, the generally complacent and unified mood of the United States in the prosperous years following the War of 1812 became popularly known as the Era of Good Feelings. Accordingly, Monroe’s renomination in 1820 was considered so inevitable that it was not even formalized; after the congressional caucus of Democratic-Republicans failed to produce a quorum to put forward the nomination, it was simply assumed that Monroe and Vice Pres. Daniel D. Tompkins would again constitute the party’s ticket. Meanwhile, the Federalist Party , which had fared poorly in the previous election, continued its disintegration on the national level by declining to endorse a single presidential candidate, a development that all but assured Monroe’s reelection. James MonroeJames Monroe, oil sketch by E.O. Sully, 1836, after a contemporary portrait by Thomas Sully; in Independence National Historical Park, Philadelphia.Courtesy of the Independence National Historical Park Collection, Philadelphia Monroe’s reelection The predetermined nature of the election resulted in low voter turnout in the 15 states that chose presidential electors by popular vote. Unsurprisingly, Monroe carried all 24 states in the Union, though he was deprived of a unanimous victory in the electoral college by an elector from New Hampshire, who cast a lone dissenting vote for Secretary of State John Quincy Adams . On the vice presidential side of the ticket, Tompkins faced greater opposition among electors but still collected 218 of the 232 electoral votes. While the Federalists managed victories in scattered local campaigns, especially in New England, their absence from the national stage hastened the party’s demise. Perhaps emblematic of the party’s anemic condition was the fact that the former Federalist president John Adams , serving as an elector from Massachusetts, voted for Monroe. For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1816. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1824. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today John M. Cunningham Results of the 1820 election The results of the 1820 presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1820 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes* *Electors were chosen by legislatures in many states, not by popular vote. Source: United States Office of the Federal Register. James Monroe Democratic-Republican 231 John Quincy Adams Independent-Republican 1 (not voted) 3 Learn More in these related Britannica articles: James Monroe: Presidency By 1820, when he was reelected, receiving all the electoral votes but one, the Federalists had ceased to function as a party. (See primary source documents: First Inaugural Address and Second Inaugural Address.) The chief events of his calm and prosperous administration, which has been called the Era of Good… Democratic-Republican Party Democratic-Republican Party, first opposition political party in the United States. Organized in 1792 as the Republican Party, its members held power nationally between 1801 and 1825. It was the direct antecedent of the present Democratic Party. During the two administrations of President George Washington (1789–97), many former… James Monroe James Monroe, fifth president of the United States (1817–25), who issued an important contribution to U.S. foreign policy in the Monroe Doctrine, a warning to European nations against intervening in the Western Hemisphere. The… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1820 Quick Facts date 1820 participants John Quincy Adams James Monroe Daniel D. Tompkins related topics Democratic-Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1820 Additional Information More About Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!