https://www.britannica.com/biography/John-Quincy-Adams
John Quincy Adams | Biography, Facts, & Presidency | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents John Quincy Adams president of United States Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction & Quick Facts Early life and career Break with the Federalists Secretary of state Presidency and feud with Jackson Second career in Congress Personality Cabinet of President John Quincy Adams John Quincy Adams president of United States Written By: Samuel Flagg Bemis Last Updated: Apr 17, 2020 See Article History Alternative Title: Old Man Eloquent Learn about the United States' sixth president, John Quincy Adams, on the National Republican PartyAn overview of John Quincy Adams.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article John Quincy Adams, byname Old Man Eloquent, (born July 11, 1767, Braintree [now Quincy], Massachusetts [U.S.] —died February 23, 1848, Washington, D.C., U.S. ), sixth president of the United States (1825–29) and eldest son of President John Adams. In his prepresidential years he was one of America’s greatest diplomats (formulating, among other things, what came to be called the Monroe Doctrine), and in his postpresidential years (as a U.S. congressman, 1831–48) he conducted a consistent and often dramatic fight against the expansion of slavery. John Quincy Adams.© Archive Photos Key events in the life of John Quincy Adams.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Top Questions Why is John Quincy Adams important? John Quincy Adams was the sixth president of the United States (1825–29). In his prepresidential years he was one of America’s greatest diplomats—formulating, among other things, what came to be called the Monroe Doctrine—and in his postpresidential years (as a U.S. congressman, 1831–48) he fought against the expansion of slavery. What was John Quincy Adams’s childhood like? John Quincy Adams was the eldest son of John and Abigail Adams. Growing up during the American Revolution, he watched the Battle of Bunker Hill from Penn’s Hill and heard the cannons roar across the Back Bay in Boston. He accompanied his father on diplomatic missions to Europe and studied in Paris and Leiden, Netherlands. How did John Quincy Adams become president? In the U.S. presidential election of 1824, Andrew Jackson received 99 electoral votes, Adams 84, William Crawford 41, and Henry Clay 37. Because no one had a majority, the House of Representatives chose between the three top candidates. Clay supported Adams, ensuring his victory and the bitter opposition of the Jacksonians to all his initiatives. What was John Quincy Adams’s occupation? John Quincy Adams was a diplomat in the administrations of George Washington, John Adams, and James Madison. He served in the Massachusetts Senate and the United States Senate, and he taught at Harvard. He was secretary of state under James Monroe. After his presidential term, he served in the House of Representatives. What were John Quincy Adams’s achievements? John Quincy Adams signed the Treaty of Ghent and played a leading part in the U.S. acquisition of Florida and establishing the northern boundary of the United States. He successfully defended the mutineers of the slave ship Amistad as freemen before the Supreme Court against efforts to return them to their masters and to inevitable death. Early life and career John Quincy Adams entered the world at the same time that his maternal great-grandfather, John Quincy, for many years a prominent member of the Massachusetts legislature, was leaving it—hence his name. He grew up as a child of the American Revolution. He watched the Battle of Bunker Hill from Penn’s Hill and heard the cannons roar across the Back Bay in Boston. His patriot father, John Adams, at that time a delegate to the Continental Congress, and his patriot mother, Abigail Smith Adams, had a strong molding influence on his education after the war had deprived Braintree of its only schoolmaster. In 1778 and again in 1780 the boy accompanied his father to Europe. He studied at a private school in Paris in 1778–79 and at the University of Leiden, Netherlands, in 1780. Thus, at an early age he acquired an excellent knowledge of the French language and a smattering of Dutch. In 1780, also, he began to keep regularly the diary that forms so conspicuous a record of his doings and those of his contemporaries through the next 60 years of American history. Self-appreciative, like most of the Adams clan, he once declared that, if his diary had been even richer, it might have become "next to the Holy Scriptures, the most precious and valuable book ever written by human hands." Birthplace of John Quincy Adams, in Quincy (formerly Braintree), Massachusetts, photograph c. 1855.Detroit Publishing Company Collection/Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (digital file no. 4a11321) In 1781, at age 14, Adams accompanied Francis Dana, United States envoy to Russia, as his private secretary and interpreter of French. Dana, after lingering for more than a year in St. Petersburg, was not received by the Russian government, so in 1782 Adams, returning by way of Scandinavia, Hanover, and the Netherlands, joined his father in Paris. There he acted, in an informal way, as an additional secretary to the American commissioners in the negotiation of the Peace of Paris that concluded the American Revolution. Instead of remaining in London with his father, who had been appointed United States minister to the Court of St. James’s, he chose to return to Massachusetts, where he attended Harvard College, graduating in 1787. He then read law at Newburyport under the tutelage of Theophilus Parsons, and in 1790 he was admitted to the bar association in Boston. While struggling to establish a practice, he wrote a series of articles for the newspapers in which he controverted some of the doctrines in Thomas Paine’s Rights of Man (1791). In another later series he ably supported the neutrality policy of George Washington’s administration as it faced the war that broke out between France and England in 1793. These articles were brought to President Washington’s attention and resulted in Adams’s appointment as U.S. minister to the Netherlands in May 1794. Adams, John QuincyJohn Quincy Adams at 16 years old, 1783; copy of an engraving after a portrait by Izaak Schmidt, located in the Old House, Adams National Historical Park, Quincy, Massachusetts.U.S. National Park Service The Hague was then the best diplomatic listening post in Europe for the War of the First Coalition against Revolutionary France. Young Adams’s official dispatches to the secretary of state and his informal letters to his father, who was then the vice president, kept the government well informed of the diplomatic activities and wars of the distressed Continent and the danger of becoming involved in the European vortex. These letters were also read by President Washington: some of Adams’s phrases, in fact, appeared in Washington’s Farewell Address of 1796. During the absence of Thomas Pinckney, the regular United States minister to Great Britain, Adams transacted public business in London with the British Foreign Office relating to the exchange of ratifications of the Jay Treaty of 1794 between the United States and Great Britain. In 1796 Washington, who came to regard young Adams as the ablest officer in the foreign service, appointed him minister to Portugal, but before his departure his father became president and changed the young diplomat’s destination to Prussia. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today John Quincy Adams was married in London in 1797, on the eve of his departure for Berlin, to Louisa Catherine Johnson (Louisa Adams), daughter of the United States consul Joshua Johnson, a Marylander by birth, and his wife, Katherine Nuth, an Englishwoman. Adams had first met her when he was 12 years old and his father was minister to France. Fragile in health, she suffered from migraine headaches and fainting spells. Yet she proved to be a gracious hostess who played the harp and was learned in Greek, French, and English literature. Accompanying her husband on his various missions in Europe, she came to be regarded as one of the most-traveled women of her time. Adams, LouisaLouisa Adams, oil on canvas by Charles Bird King, 1821–25.ART Collection/Alamy Johnson was not, however, Adams’s first love. When he was 14 years old, he had had a “crush” on an actress he saw perform in France, and for years afterward, he confessed, she was in his dreams. At age 22 he fell deeply in love with one Mary Frazier but was dissuaded from marrying her by his mother, who insisted that he was not able to support a wife. Ultimately, Adams could see that, in marrying a rich heiress like Louisa Johnson, he might be able to enjoy the leisure to pursue a career as a writer, but her family suffered business reverses and declared bankruptcy only a few weeks after the wedding. The union had many stormy moments. Adams was cold and often depressed, and he admitted that his political adversaries regarded him as a “gloomy misanthropist” and “unsocial savage.” His wife is said to have regretted her marriage into the Adams family. The loss of two sons in adulthood—and a daughter in infancy—may have heightened the strains between husband and wife. The eldest son, George Washington Adams, was a gambler, womanizer, and alcoholic whose death by drowning may have been suicide. The second son, John Adams II, succumbed to alcohol. He remains the only son of a president who was married in the White House. On that occasion, the president unbent and danced the Virginia reel. A third son, Charles Francis Adams, brought honour to the family name once again, being elected to the House of Representatives and serving as United States minister to England during the American Civil War. While in Berlin, Adams negotiated (1799) a treaty of amity and commerce with Prussia. Recalled from Berlin by President Adams after the election of Thomas Jefferson to the presidency in 1800, the younger Adams reached Boston in 1801 and the next year was elected to the Massachusetts Senate. In 1803 the Massachusetts legislature elected him a member of the Senate of the United States. John Quincy Adams Quick Facts View Media Page born July 11, 1767 Braintree, Massachusetts died February 23, 1848 (aged 80) Washington, D.C., United States title / office House of Representatives, United States (1831-1848) presidency of the United States of America, United States (1825-1829) secretary of state, United States (1817-1825) United States Senate, United States (1803-1808) political affiliation Democratic-Republican Party Federalist Party National Republican Party role in Monroe Doctrine Anti-Masonic Movement Treaty of Ghent Transcontinental Treaty awards and honors Hall of Fame for Great Americans (1905) house / dynasty Adams family notable family members spouse Louisa Adams father John Adams mother Abigail Adams son Charles Francis Adams Load Next Page John Quincy Adams Additional Information More About Additional Reading External Websites The White House - Biography of John Quincy Adams U.S. Department of State - Office of the Historian - Biography of John Quincy Adams Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. John Quincy Adams - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) John Quincy Adams - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!