https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1824
United States presidential election of 1824 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1824 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction The demise of “King Caucus” The election Results of the 1824 election United States presidential election of 1824 United States government Written By: Michael Levy See Article History United States presidential election of 1824, American presidential election held in 1824, in which John Quincy Adams was elected by the House of Representatives after Andrew Jackson won the most popular and electoral votes but failed to receive a majority. American presidential election, 1824Results of the American presidential election, 1824 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes 1As no candidate received a majority of the electoral votes, the decision was made by the House of Representatives. John Quincy Adams (No distinct party designations) 841 108,740 Andrew Jackson 99 153,544 Henry Clay 37 47,531 William H. Crawford 41 40,856 Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001).Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The demise of “King Caucus” Beginning in 1796, caucuses of the political parties’ congressional delegations met informally to nominate their presidential and vice presidential candidates, leaving the general public with no direct input. The subsequent demise in the 1810s of the Federalist Party, which failed even to nominate a presidential candidate in 1820, made nomination by the Democratic-Republican caucus tantamount to election as president. This early nomination system—dubbed “King Caucus” by its critics—evoked widespread resentment, even from some members of the Democratic-Republican caucus. In the election of 1820, during the period often termed the “Era of Good Feelings,” James Monroe ran unopposed, winning 231 of the 235 electoral votes (Adams received one, and three other votes were not recorded). By 1824 the King Caucus system had fallen into such disrepute that only one-fourth of the Democratic-Republican congressional delegation took part in the caucus, which nominated Secretary of the Treasury William Crawford of Georgia. (Crawford had only narrowly been defeated in the caucus by Monroe in 1816.) Crawford’s nomination seemed unusual, given that he had suffered a stroke in 1823 and that Adams and Jackson were more popular figures in the party. Jackson, a military hero from Tennessee, was nominated by the Tennessee state legislature in 1822 and was joined in the contest by Adams, from Massachusetts and an able secretary of state under Monroe, and Kentuckian Henry Clay, the speaker of the House of Representatives, who was viewed as the candidate of the West. John C. Calhoun of South Carolina abandoned a bid for the presidency, instead choosing to run as the vice presidential nominee for both Adams and Jackson. Jackson, AndrewAndrew Jackson, oil on canvas by Asher B. Durand, c. 1800; in the collection of the New-York Historical Society.Bettmann/Corbis John Quincy Adams, painting by George Peter Alexander Healy, 1858.Gianni Dagli Orti/Shutterstock.com William H. Crawford.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Henry ClayHenry Clay.© North Wind Picture Archives The election The 1824 election was the first in which a large majority of electors were chosen by voters rather than by appointment by state legislatures. Calling what ensued a “campaign” might be an overstatement, however, because the candidates did not actively campaign on their own behalf. Rather, advocates of the candidates mobilized to spread the word and turn out their base of supporters. When the votes were tallied, Jackson received more than 150,000 votes, while Adams finished second with some 108,000. Clay and Crawford were a distant third and fourth, respectively, in the popular vote. Jackson received 99 electoral votes, winning outright in Alabama, Indiana, Mississippi, New Jersey, North Carolina, South Carolina, Pennsylvania, and Tennessee while taking some electoral votes in Illinois (3), Louisiana (3), Maryland (7), and New York (1). Adams captured 84 electoral votes, running strongly in particular in New England; he won all the electoral votes of Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Vermont, carried 26 of New York’s 36, and won a handful from Delaware (1), Illinois (1), Louisiana (2), and Maryland (3). Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today With Crawford picking up 41 electoral votes and Clay 37, no candidate received a majority, however, and the House of Representatives would therefore choose among the top three leading candidates, as dictated by the Twelfth Amendment. Clay was thus eliminated from contention, but as speaker of the House he would play a large role in the ensuing election, in which each state would cast only one vote. Crawford’s illness precluded him from being a major factor, so the presidency was largely a battle between Adams and Jackson. Jackson staked his claim to the presidency by arguing that he had led both the popular and electoral vote tallies. But, while Jackson largely stayed out of negotiations with members of Congress, Adams actively sought their votes and even had a private meeting with Clay. In the event, on Feb. 9, 1825, Adams was elected president by the House of Representatives on the first ballot, winning 13 states to Jackson’s 7 and Crawford’s 4. Kentucky’s delegation, which had received direction from the state legislature to vote for Jackson, instead plumped for Adams, being swayed (as were some members in some other delegations) by Clay. Soon after Adams’s inauguration, Clay was appointed secretary of state, which led Jackson’s supporters to denounce an alleged deal between Adams and Clay as the “Corrupt Bargain.” Although Adams won in 1824, Jackson got his revenge in 1828 when he defeated Adams to capture the presidency. For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1820. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1828.Michael Levy Results of the 1824 election The results of the 1824 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1824 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes *As no candidate received a majority of the electoral votes, the decision was made by the House of Representatives. Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001). John Quincy Adams no distinct party designations 84* 108,740 Andrew Jackson 99 153,544 Henry Clay 37 47,531 William H. Crawford 41 40,856 Learn More in these related Britannica articles: John Quincy Adams: Presidency and feud with Jackson …drew to a close in 1824, there was a lack of good feeling among his official advisers, three of whom—Secretary of State John Quincy Adams, Secretary of War John C. Calhoun, and Secretary of the Treasury William H. Crawford—aspired to succeed him. Henry Clay, speaker of the House, and General… John C. Calhoun: Champion of states’ rights …was elected vice president in 1824 under John Quincy Adams and was reelected in 1828 under Andrew Jackson. In the 1830s Calhoun became as extreme in his devotion to strict construction of the United States Constitution as he had earlier been in his support of nationalism. In the summer of… John Quincy Adams John Quincy Adams, sixth president of the United States (1825–29) and eldest son of President John Adams. In his prepresidential years he was one of America’s greatest diplomats (formulating,… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1824 Quick Facts date 1824 participants John Quincy Adams John C. Calhoun Henry Clay William H. Crawford Andrew Jackson related topics United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1824 Additional Information More About External Websites UShistory.org - The 1824 Election and the "Corrupt Bargain" United States History - Election of 1824 History Central - Presidential Elections 1824 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!