https://www.britannica.com/biography/Andrew-Jackson
Andrew Jackson | Facts, Biography, & Accomplishments | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents Andrew Jackson president of United States Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction & Quick Facts Early life Tennessee politics Military feats Presidential prospects Jacksonian Democracy The first term Reelection in 1832 Jackson’s influence Cabinet of President Andrew Jackson Andrew Jackson president of United States Written By: Harold Whitman Bradley Last Updated: Apr 17, 2020 See Article History Alternative Title: Old Hickory See how Andrew Jackson's signing of the Indian Removal Act led to the Trail of TearsAn overview of Andrew Jackson.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article Andrew Jackson, byname Old Hickory, (born March 15, 1767, Waxhaws region, South Carolina [U.S.] —died June 8, 1845, the Hermitage, near Nashville, Tennessee, U.S. ), military hero and seventh president of the United States (1829–37). He was the first U.S. president to come from the area west of the Appalachians and the first to gain office by a direct appeal to the mass of voters. His political movement has since been known as Jacksonian Democracy. Key events in the life of Andrew Jackson.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Top Questions What was Andrew Jackson’s education? Andrew Jackson did not have much formal education as a child, and he was imprisoned by the British during the American Revolution, when he was in his teens. However, he later studied law and became a lawyer and a politician. How did Andrew Jackson become famous? As leader of the Tennessee militia, during the War of 1812 Andrew Jackson decisively defeated the Creek Indians (allied with the British). His heroic defeat of the British in the Battle of New Orleans cemented his reputation as a war hero. In 1817–18 he responded to Seminole raids into Georgia by taking control of Spanish Florida. What were Andrew Jackson’s accomplishments? Andrew Jackson was the first to be elected president by appealing to the mass of voters rather than the party elite. He established the principle that states may not disregard federal law. However, he also signed the Indian Removal Act of 1830, which led to the Trail of Tears. Early life Jackson was born on the western frontier of the Carolinas, an area that was in dispute between North Carolina and South Carolina, and both states have claimed him as a native son. Jackson maintained that he was born in South Carolina, and the weight of evidence supports his assertion. The area offered little opportunity for formal education, and what schooling he received was interrupted by the British invasion of the western Carolinas in 1780–81. In the latter year he was captured by the British. Shortly after being imprisoned, he refused to shine the boots of a British officer and was struck across the face with a sabre. His mother and two brothers died during the closing years of the war, direct or indirect casualties of the invasion of the Carolinas. This sequence of tragic experiences fixed in Jackson’s mind a lifelong hostility toward Great Britain. After the end of the American Revolution, he studied law in an office in Salisbury, North Carolina, and was admitted to the bar of that state in 1787. In 1788 he went to the Cumberland region as prosecuting attorney of the western district of North Carolina—the region west of the Appalachians, soon to become the state of Tennessee. Jackson, AndrewIllustration from John Frost's A Pictorial Biography of Andrew Jackson (1860) depicting 13-year-old Andrew Jackson's refusal to shine the boots of a British officer.A Pictorial Biography of Andrew Jackson by John Frost, 1860 When Jackson arrived in Nashville, the community was still a frontier settlement. As prosecuting attorney, Jackson was principally occupied with suits for the collection of debts. He was so successful in these litigations that he soon had a thriving private practice and had gained the friendship of landowners and creditors. For almost 30 years Jackson was allied with this group in Tennessee politics. Jackson boarded in the home of Col. John Donelson, where he met and married the colonel’s daughter, Rachel Robards (Rachel Jackson). Tennessee politics Jackson’s interest in public affairs and in politics had always been keen. He had gone to Nashville as a political appointee, and in 1796 he became a member of the convention that drafted a constitution for the new state of Tennessee. In the same year he was elected as the first representative from Tennessee to the U.S. House of Representatives. An undistinguished legislator, he refused to seek reelection and served only until March 4, 1797. Jackson returned to Tennessee, vowing never to enter public life again, but before the end of the year he was elected to the U.S. Senate. His willingness to accept the office reflects his emergence as an acknowledged leader of one of the two political factions contending for control of the state. Nevertheless, Jackson resigned from the Senate in 1798 after an uneventful year. Soon after his return to Nashville he was elected a judge of the superior court (in effect, the supreme court) of the state and served in that post until 1804. In 1802 Jackson had also been elected major general of the Tennessee militia, a position he still held when the War of 1812 opened the door to a command in the field and a hero’s role. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Military feats In March 1812, when it appeared that war with Great Britain was imminent, Jackson issued a call for 50,000 volunteers to be ready for an invasion of Canada. After the declaration of war, in June 1812, Jackson offered his services and those of his militia to the United States. The government was slow to accept this offer, and, when Jackson finally was given a command in the field, it was to fight against the Creek Indians, who were allied with the British and who were threatening the southern frontier. In a campaign of about five months, in 1813–14, Jackson crushed the Creeks, the final victory coming in the Battle of Tohopeka (or Horseshoe Bend) in Alabama. The victory was so decisive that the Creeks never again menaced the frontier, and Jackson was established as the hero of the West. Jackson, AndrewAndrew Jackson with the Tennessee forces at Hickory Grounds, Alabama; hand-coloured lithograph, c. 1830–50. Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (reproduction no. LC-DIG-pga-00295) In August 1814, Jackson moved his army south to Mobile. Though he was without specific instructions, his real objective was the Spanish post at Pensacola. The motive was to prepare the way for U.S. occupation of Florida, then a Spanish possession. Jackson’s justification for this bold move was that Spain and Great Britain were allies in the wars in Europe. At Mobile, Jackson learned that an army of British regulars had landed at Pensacola. In the first week in November, he led his army into Florida and, on November 7, occupied that city just as the British evacuated it to go by sea to Louisiana. Jackson then marched his army overland to New Orleans, where he arrived early in December. A series of small skirmishes between detachments of the two armies culminated in the Battle of New Orleans on January 8, 1815, in which Jackson’s forces inflicted a decisive defeat upon the British army and forced it to withdraw. The news of this victory reached Washington at a time when morale was at a low point. A few days later, news of the signing of the Treaty of Ghent (Belgium) between the United States and Great Britain on December 24, 1814, reached the capital. The twin tidings brought joy and relief to the American people and made Jackson the hero not only of the West but of a substantial part of the country as well. New Orleans, Battle of; Jackson, AndrewThe Battle of New Orleans, reproduction of an oil painting by E. Percy Moran, c. 1910.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (LC-USZC2-3796) Battle of New OrleansBattle of New Orleans, lithograph by Kurz & Allison, c. 1890.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (LC-DIG-pga-01838) New Orleans, Battle ofAndrew Jackson During the Battle of New Orleans, illustration by Frederick Coffay Yohn, c. 1922.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (Digital File Number: cph 3g06222) After the close of the war, Jackson was named commander of the southern district. He entrusted the command of the troops in the field to subordinates while he retired to his home at the Hermitage, near Nashville. He was ordered back to active service at the end of December 1817, when unrest along the border appeared to be reaching critical proportions. The instructions given Jackson were vague, and he ordered an invasion of Florida immediately after taking active command. He captured two Spanish posts and appointed one of his subordinates military governor of Florida. These bold actions brought an immediate and sharp protest from Spain and precipitated a cabinet crisis in Washington. The staunch defense of Jackson by Secretary of State John Quincy Adams saved Jackson from censure and hastened the U.S. acquisition of Florida. Hermitage, theThe Hermitage, Andrew Jackson's estate in Tennessee; chromolithograph by Endicott & Co., 1856.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (reproduction no. LC-USZ61-73) Presidential prospects Jackson’s military triumphs led to suggestions that he become a candidate for president, but he disavowed any interest, and political leaders in Washington assumed that the flurry of support for him would prove transitory. The campaign to make him president, however, was kept alive by his continued popularity and was carefully nurtured by a small group of his friends in Nashville, who combined devotion to the general with a high degree of political astuteness. In 1822 these friends maneuvered the Tennessee legislature into a formal nomination of their hero as a candidate for president. In the following year this same group persuaded the legislature to elect him to the U.S. Senate—a gesture designed to demonstrate the extent of his popularity in his home state. In the election of 1824 four candidates received electoral votes. Jackson received the highest number (99); the others receiving electoral votes were John Quincy Adams (84), William H. Crawford (41), and Henry Clay (37). Because no one had a majority, the House of Representatives was required to elect a president from the three with the highest number of votes. Crawford was critically ill, so the actual choice was between Jackson and Adams. Clay, as speaker of the House, was in a strategic and perhaps decisive position to determine the outcome, and he threw his support to Adams, who was elected on the first ballot. When Adams appointed Clay secretary of state, it seemed to admirers of Jackson to confirm rumours of a “corrupt bargain” between Adams and Clay. Jackson’s friends persuaded him that the popular will had been thwarted by intrigues, and he thereupon determined to vindicate himself and his supporters by becoming a candidate again in 1828. Jackson, AndrewA political cartoon from 1824 showing Andrew Jackson (“Old Hickory”) under attack from a pack of dogs representing the opposition press.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. “HUZZA! For Gen. Jackson!!”“HUZZA! For Gen. Jackson!!” Broadside advocating the electon of Andrew Jackson as president of the United States, 1825.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C., Printed Ephemera Collection; Portfolio 229, Folder 10 In the election of 1828 Jackson defeated Adams by an electoral vote of 178 to 83 after a campaign in which personalities and slander played a larger part than in any previous U.S. national election. Jackson and his wife, Rachel, despite their long marriage, had been vilified in campaign pamphlets as adulterers. The basis was that Rachel Jackson was not legally divorced from her first husband at the time she and Jackson were wed. When they discovered their mistake they remarried, but the damage had been done. Jackson’s hour of triumph was soon overshadowed by personal tragedy—his wife died at the Hermitage on December 22, 1828. Retiring and religious, she had avoided the public eye, and the scabrous attacks had hurt her deeply. Jackson had these words inscribed on her tombstone: “A being so gentle and yet so virtuous, slander might wound, but could not dishonor.” She had dreaded becoming the hostess of the President’s House, saying that she would “rather be a doorkeeper in the House of God than live in that palace.” Jackson, RachelRachel Jackson.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (digital file no. 3a53325) Rachel Jackson’s niece, Emily Donelson, the wife of Andrew Jackson Donelson, served as the president’s hostess until 1836. At times, Sarah Yorke Jackson, the wife of Andrew Jackson’s adopted son, also served as his hostess. Donelson, EmilyEmily Donelson.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Andrew Jackson Quick Facts View Media Page born March 15, 1767 Waxhaws region, South Carolina died June 8, 1845 (aged 78) near Nashville, Tennessee title / office presidency of the United States of America, United States (1829-1837) United States Senate, United States (1797-1798) House of Representatives, United States (1796-1797) political affiliation Democratic Party role in Force Bill nullification crisis Battle of New Orleans Bank War Battle of Horseshoe Bend First Seminole War Creek War Seminole Wars Specie Circular awards and honors Hall of Fame for Great Americans (1910) notable family members spouse Rachel Jackson did you know? Andrew Jackson adopted an orphaned Creek Indian boy named Lyncoya. Jackson was the first U.S. president born in a log cabin. Jackson opposed the concept of a national bank but his portrait is displayed on the twenty dollar bill. Jackson is the first U.S. president to survive an assassination attempt. Load Next Page Andrew Jackson Additional Information More About Additional Reading Quotes External Websites HistoryNet - Biography of Andrew Jackson National Park Service - Biography of Andrew Jackson United States Senate - Andrew Jackson Tennessee Encyclopedia of History and Culture - Biography of Andrew Jackson Spartacus Educational - Biography of Andrew Jackson The White House - Biography of Andrew Jackson Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Andrew Jackson - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) Andrew Jackson - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!