https://www.britannica.com/biography/Henry-Clay
Henry Clay | American statesman | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents Henry Clay American statesman Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction & Quick Facts Early years Public office The Whig Party years and disappointment The Compromise of 1850 and final years Legacy Henry Clay American statesman Written By: David S. Heidler Jeanne T. Heidler Last Updated: Apr 8, 2020 See Article History Alternative Titles: The Great Compromiser, The Great Pacificator Henry Clay, byname The Great Pacificator or The Great Compromiser, (born April 12, 1777, Hanover county, Virginia, U.S.—died June 29, 1852, Washington, D.C.), American statesman, U.S. congressman (1811–14, 1815–21, 1823–25), and U.S. senator (1806–07, 1810–11, 1831–42, 1849–52) who was noted for his American System (which integrated a national bank, the tariff, and internal improvements to promote economic stability and prosperity) and was a major promoter of the Missouri Compromise (1820) and the Compromise of 1850, both efforts to shield the American union from sectional discord over slavery. Clay was an unsuccessful candidate for president in three general elections, running first in 1824, then as a National Republican (1832), and finally as a Whig (1844). Clay, HenryHenry Clay, mezzotint by H.S. Sadd, after a painting by J.W. Dodge, 1843.Library of Congress/Washington, D.C. (Digital file no. LC-DIG-pga-03227) Early years Clay was born on a modest farm in Virginia during the American Revolution. He was the fourth of five surviving siblings. His father, a tobacco farmer and Baptist minister, died when Clay was four years old, but his mother remarried, and Clay’s youth was relatively comfortable. Campaign biographies later portrayed him as rising from poverty, but that depiction ignored an adequate education and family connections that landed him a clerkship under the celebrated Virginia jurist George Wythe, the judge of the state chancery court in Richmond. Wythe introduced Clay to the law and arranged for his legal instruction under state attorney general and former governor Robert Brooke. Clay proved a quick study and was admitted to the bar in 1797. The glut of lawyers in Richmond persuaded him to follow his family to Kentucky, where they had moved in 1791. Clay settled in Lexington in 1797 and soon had a thriving law practice. In addition to handling lucrative cases dealing with disputed land titles, Clay developed a commanding courtroom presence that made him a formidable defense attorney. In 1821 he was the first attorney to file an amicus curiæ (“friend of the court”) brief with the U.S. Supreme Court. He was also possibly the first attorney to use a successful plea of temporary insanity to save from the gallows a client accused of murder. Those strategies were among the innovations that marked him as a legal pioneer. As a new resident of Lexington, Clay joined leading citizens to promote civic improvements and support Transylvania University, a prestigious institution where he taught law. He soon became a pillar of the Lexington community, but he also maintained his youthful habits of drinking and gambling that had earned him the nickname “Prince Hal,” a reference to William Shakespeare’s portrait of the future Henry V cavorting with the boozy Sir John Falstaff. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today In 1799 Clay married Lucretia Hart, whose family’s wealth, along with Clay’s own industry, eventually made it possible for him to purchase a large farm outside Lexington. He named the farm Ashland after its many blue ash trees (Fraxinus quadrangulata). There he cultivated a variety of grains and bred sheep, blooded (entirely or largely purebred) cattle, and extraordinary race horses. He was a member of one of the first syndicates in the United States to purchase a Thoroughbred stallion for competition and stud service. Because Clay seemed eager for social advancement and Hart was apparently a plain girl, their marriage has been described as a cold arrangement to save her from spinsterhood while providing him social status and economic security. Traces of Prince Hal’s exuberance remained part of Clay’s personality into his old age, but time and Lucretia’s influence gradually steadied and tempered him. If others thought their marriage devoid of passion, they could have disagreed. They had 11 children. Five were boys, but Clay especially doted on his daughters. To his and Lucretia’s heartbreak, two of the girls did not survive infancy, another died as a child, and the three others passed away in relative youth. Those losses made Clay and Lucretia closer in grief. The law was a natural path to politics. Clay had a powerful presence, a rich baritone voice, and the agility to speak extemporaneously. He could also memorize long texts for speeches that were persuasive as well as hypnotic. His talent saved him from occasional missteps that could have stalled a lesser man’s career. He enthusiastically promoted the abolition of slavery in Kentucky in the late 1790s, a distinctly unpopular and unsuccessful proposal. Clay defended former vice president and shadowy adventurer Aaron Burr in 1806 before a grand jury that was investigating Burr’s plan to establish an empire in the Southwest. When Burr was later charged with treason, Clay was fortunate that his ties to Burr did not tarnish his national reputation just as it was being established. Also, at some risk, Clay passionately opposed Federalist efforts designed to curb immigration and silence Republican dissent with the Alien and Sedition Acts of 1798. Henry Clay Quick Facts View Media Page born April 12, 1777 Hanover, Virginia died June 29, 1852 (aged 75) Washington, D.C., United States title / office United States Senate, United States (1849-1852) United States Senate, United States (1831-1842) secretary of state, United States (1825-1829) house of representatives, United States (1823-1825) house of representatives, United States (1815-1821) house of representatives, United States (1811-1814) United States Senate, United States (1810-1811) United States Senate, United States (1806-1807) political affiliation Democratic-Republican Party Whig Party role in Missouri Compromise Compromise of 1850 nullification crisis Bank War awards and honors Hall of Fame for Great Americans (1900) Load Next Page Henry Clay Additional Information More About Additional Reading Quotes External Websites United States History - Biography Of Henry Clay History, Art, and Archives - United States House of Representatives - Biography of Henry Clay U.S. Department of State - Office of the Historian - Biography of Henry Clay Ohio History Central - Biography of Henry Clay Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Henry Clay - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) Henry Clay - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!