https://www.britannica.com/biography/William-H-Crawford
William H. Crawford | United States government official | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 William H. Crawford United States government official Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter William H. Crawford United States government official Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Alternative Title: William Harris Crawford William H. Crawford, (born Feb. 24, 1772, Amherst County [now Nelson County], Virginia—died Sept. 15, 1834, Elberton, Ga., U.S.), American political leader of the early U.S. republic; he finished third in electoral votes in the four-candidate race for president in 1824. After living in Virginia and South Carolina, the Crawford family moved to Georgia, where William attended Moses Waddel’s Carmel Academy. He then taught school in Augusta, studied law, and in 1799 opened a law practice in Lexington, Ga. A Jeffersonian Republican, he entered elective politics in 1803, winning a seat in the Georgia legislature. In 1807 he went to Washington to fill the unexpired term of Georgia’s deceased U.S. senator Abraham Baldwin. In the Senate, Crawford quickly earned a reputation for wisdom and sound judgment, and the Georgia legislature elected him to a full term as senator in 1811. Crawford backed U.S. preparations for and the declaration of war against Britain in 1812 and—unlike most Democratic Republicans—favoured a tariff and extension of the charter of the Bank of the United States. When Vice President George Clinton died in 1812, Crawford was elected president pro tempore of the Senate (which his predecessor, Baldwin, had been) but left the position the following year to become minister to France. In 1815 President James Madison appointed Crawford secretary of war and a year later named him secretary of the treasury, a position in which, from 1816 to 1825, Crawford’s abilities were best utilized. A leading candidate for the presidential nomination in 1816, Crawford deferred to James Monroe, who was elected and who retained Crawford as secretary of the treasury. Monroe was reelected virtually without opposition in 1820. In 1824 Crawford was again a presidential prospect, along with John Quincy Adams, Henry Clay, and Andrew Jackson. Crawford won the vote of the party caucus, but by 1824 the caucus system had fallen into disrepute, and its choice proved meaningless. At the time of the election, Crawford was paralyzed and nearly blind as the result of a stroke. Although his supporters claimed that he was steadily improving, he finished a distant third behind Adams and Jackson. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Crawford refused Adams’ invitation to stay on as secretary of the treasury and instead returned to Georgia, where he served as a judge until his death. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: The Rise of Andrew Jackson: The Quest for the Presidency …Adams headed the State Department, William H. Crawford the Treasury, and John C. Calhoun the War Department.… presidency of the United States of America: King Caucus …nominated Secretary of the Treasury William Crawford instead of more popular figures such as John Quincy Adams and Andrew Jackson. Jackson, Adams, and Henry Clay eventually joined Crawford in contesting the subsequent presidential election, in which Jackson received the most popular and electoral votes but was denied the presidency by… John Quincy Adams: Presidency and feud with Jackson …and Secretary of the Treasury William H. Crawford—aspired to succeed him. Henry Clay, speaker of the House, and General Andrew Jackson were also candidates. Calhoun was nominated for the vice presidency. Of the other four, Jackson received 99 electoral votes for the presidency, Adams 84, Crawford 41, and Clay 37;… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. William H. Crawford Quick Facts View Media Page born February 24, 1772 Amherst, Virginia died September 15, 1834 (aged 62) Elberton, Georgia title / office United States Senate, United States (1807-1813) political affiliation Democratic-Republican Party William H. Crawford Additional Information More About External Websites University of Notre Dame Hesburgh Libraries - Rare Books and Special Collections - William Harris Crawford Papers New Georgia Encyclopedia - History and Archaeology - Biography of William Harris Crawford Spartacus Educational - Biography of William Crawford Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. William Harris Crawford - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!