https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1828
United States presidential election of 1828 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1828 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction Appealing to the masses Results of the 1828 election United States presidential election of 1828 United States government Written By: Alison Eldridge See Article History United States presidential election of 1828, American presidential election held in 1828, in which Democrat Andrew Jackson defeated National Republican John Quincy Adams . American presidential election, 1828Results of the American presidential election, 1828 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes Andrew Jackson Democratic 178 647,286 John Quincy Adams National Republican 83 508,064 Source: United States Office of the Federal Register.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The results of the 1828 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1828 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes Source: United States Office of the Federal Register. Andrew Jackson Democratic 178 647,286 John Quincy Adams National Republican 83 508,064 Appealing to the masses The election of 1828 was arguably one of the most significant in United States history, ushering in the era of political campaigns and paving the way for the solidification of political parties. The previous election, of 1824, had seen John Quincy Adams become president although his opponent Andrew Jackson had earned the most electoral votes. Because no candidate won a majority of the electoral vote, however, that election was decided by the House of Representatives in Adams’s favour after fellow candidate and Speaker of the House Henry Clay (who finished fourth) threw his support behind Adams. Adams subsequently appointed Clay his secretary of state, giving merit to rumours of a “corrupt bargain” in the eyes of Jackson supporters. During the contested election of 1824, followers of Henry Clay and John Quincy Adams began calling themselves National Republicans, and backers of Andrew Jackson emerged as Democratic Republicans. By the election of 1828, the Jacksonians had become known simply as the Democrats. Unlike previous elections, in which the parties’ congressional delegations would generally gather to nominate a candidate (this had failed to coalesce support around a single candidate among the Democratic-Republicans in 1824), this election was the first in which a majority of states held conventions to endorse a candidate. Andrew Jackson.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. By 1828 selection of presidential electors was being decided by the voters in all but two states, and public opinion was becoming more important than ever before. Jackson’s supporters established pro-Jackson newspapers and helped to distribute information and election material. Both sides organized rallies, parades, and other public events to promote their chosen candidate. Personalities and slander played a large part in the 1828 election. Jackson and his wife, Rachel, despite their long marriage, had been vilified in campaign pamphlets as adulterers. News of Jackson’s proclivities for dueling and gambling became embellished and widespread. The mudslinging was just as fierce from Jackson’s supporters, portraying Adams not only as a “corrupt bargainer” but also as an unscrupulous aristocrat who had misappropriated tax dollars. In the end, with 178 electoral votes to Adams’s 83, Jackson became the first president to gain office by a direct appeal to the mass of voters rather than through the support of a recognized political organization. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1824. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1832. Results of the 1828 election Alison Eldridge Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Andrew Jackson: Presidential prospects In the election of 1828 Jackson defeated Adams by an electoral vote of 178 to 83 after a campaign in which personalities and slander played a larger part than in any previous U.S. national election. Jackson and his wife, Rachel, despite their long marriage, had been vilified in campaign… John Quincy Adams: Presidency and feud with Jackson In 1828 Jackson was elected president over Adams, with 178 electoral votes to Adams’s 83. It was during Jackson’s administration that irreconcilable differences developed between his followers and those of Adams, the latter becoming known as the National Republicans, who, with the Anti-Masons, were the precursors… John C. Calhoun: Champion of states’ rights …Calhoun, and his prospects in 1828 were most promising. “I was a candidate for reelection (as vice president) on a ticket with General Jackson himself,” he wrote later, “with a certain prospect of the triumphant success of the ticket, and a fair prospect of the highest office to which an… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1828 Quick Facts date 1828 participants John Quincy Adams John C. Calhoun Andrew Jackson Richard Rush related topics Democratic Party National Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1828 Additional Information More About External Websites United States History - Election of 1828 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!