https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1832
United States presidential election of 1832 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1832 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction Banking battle Results of the 1832 election United States presidential election of 1832 United States government Written By: Richard Pallardy See Article History United States presidential election of 1832, American presidential election held in 1832, in which Democratic incumbent Andrew Jackson defeated National Republican candidate Henry Clay with 219 electoral votes to Clay’s 49. American presidential election, 1832Results of the American presidential election, 1832 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes Andrew Jackson Democratic 219 687,502 Henry Clay National Republican 49 530,189 William Wirt Anti-Masonic 7 100,715 John Floyd Nullifiers 11 (Not voted) 2 Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001).Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Read More on This Topic Andrew Jackson: Reelection in 1832 In the meantime, Jackson acquiesced to the pressure of friends and sought a second term. As the election of 1832 approached, Jackson’s opponents… Banking battle Though Jackson was still a popular leader as he approached the end of his first term in office, his administration was fractured by a personal conflict with his vice president, John C. Calhoun. His advocacy of the dissolution of the electoral college and of rotation of office in the federal government earned him further ire from strict constitutionalists. Jackson, AndrewAndrew Jackson, oil on canvas by Asher B. Durand, c. 1800; in the collection of the New-York Historical Society.Bettmann/Corbis Jackson’s opponents hoped to further embarrass him by posing a new dilemma. The charter of the Bank of the United States was due to expire in 1836. The president had not clearly defined his position on the bank, but he was increasingly uneasy about how it was then organized. More significant was the fact that large blocs of voters who favoured Jackson were openly hostile to the bank. In the summer of 1832, Jackson’s opponents rushed through Congress a bill to recharter it. The move, spearheaded by Kentucky senator and former speaker of the House Clay, who would become his challenger for the presidency, forced Jackson to choose between signing the measure and alienating supporters or vetoing it and appearing to be a foe of sound banking. Jackson ultimately vetoed the bill on July 10, 1832. His opponents raged that a failure to renew the charter would have devastating consequences for the economy. However, Jackson’s excoriation of the bank’s reputation as a bastion of entrenched power was well received by voters. In addition to running against Clay, Jackson was opposed by former U.S. attorney general William Wirt of Maryland, a candidate for the Anti-Masonic Party, the first third party. The Anti-Masons opposed both Jackson and Clay for their Masonic affiliations. The Anti-Masons held a convention—the first of its kind—in late 1831 in order to select their candidates. The other contending parties followed suit, ushering in the convention system. The National Republicans nominated Clay for president and John Sergeant for vice president, while the Democrats chose former secretary of state Martin Van Buren to replace Calhoun as Jackson’s vice president. Though the National Republicans attempted to paint Jackson’s positions as unconstitutional, his reform agenda remained popular, and he won a second term by a wide margin. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1828. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1836.Richard Pallardy Results of the 1832 election The results of the 1832 presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1832 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001). Andrew Jackson Democratic 219 687,502 Henry Clay National Republican 49 530,189 William Wirt Anti-Masonic 7 100,715 John Floyd Nullifiers 11 (not voted) 2 Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Andrew Jackson: Reelection in 1832 In the meantime, Jackson acquiesced to the pressure of friends and sought a second term. As the election of 1832 approached, Jackson’s opponents hoped to embarrass him by posing a new dilemma. The charter of the Bank of the United States was… Martin Van Buren: Political career: Senate and vice presidency In 1832 Van Buren was nominated for the vice presidency by the first national convention of the Democratic Party; he replaced John C. Calhoun as Pres. Jackson’s running mate. The two men ran on a platform that opposed the continued operation of the Bank of the… Democratic Party Democratic Party, in the United States, one of the two major political parties, the other being the Republican Party. The Democratic Party has changed significantly during its more than two centuries of existence. During the 19th century the party supported or tolerated slavery, and it… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1832 Quick Facts date 1832 participants Henry Clay Andrew Jackson Martin Van Buren William Wirt John Sergeant related topics Anti-Masonic Party Democratic Party National Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1832 Additional Information More About External Websites United States History - Election of 1832 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!