https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1836
United States presidential election of 1836 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1836 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction Candidates and issues Campaign and results Results of the 1836 election United States presidential election of 1836 United States government Written By: John M. Cunningham See Article History United States presidential election of 1836, American presidential election held in 1836, in which Democrat Martin Van Buren defeated several Whig Party candidates led by William Henry Harrison . American presidential election, 1836Results of the American presidential election, 1836 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes Martin Van Buren Democratic 170 762,678 William Henry Harrison Whig 73 550,816 Hugh L. White Whig 26 146,107 Daniel Webster Whig 14 41,201 W.P. Mangum Anti-Jackson 11 Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001).Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Candidates and issues As Pres. Andrew Jackson ’s second term drew to a close, he unofficially anointed his vice president, Martin Van Buren, as the standard-bearer of the Democratic Party. Although Van Buren lacked Jackson’s personal charisma, he was considered a skilled politician, and in May 1835 he was unanimously nominated as the party’s presidential candidate at a national convention in Baltimore, Md. Rep. Richard M. Johnson of Kentucky—a military hero during the War of 1812—was chosen as the vice presidential nominee despite objections from some delegates regarding his long-term intimate relationship with a slave. Johnson, RichardRichard Johnson, lithograph portrait by Charles Fenderich, 1840.Courtesy of the Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. While Jackson had effectively galvanized a base of supporters over the course of his presidency, he also provoked considerable opposition. Specifically, his assertive response to the nullification crisis in South Carolina in 1832–33 drew the ire of some states’ rights defenders, especially in the South, and his swift withdrawal of government funds from the Bank of the United States later in 1833 alienated advocates of nationalist economic policies. By 1834 several anti-Jackson factions, including the National Republican Party and the Anti-Masonic Party, had coalesced into the Whig Party. The Whigs had no unifying platform, however, and in the absence of a national convention, Whig presidential candidates were put forward by various state conventions and legislatures. This decentralized approach resulted in the emergence of four nominees—former Ohio senator and U.S. ambassador William Henry Harrison, Tennessee Sen. Hugh L. White, Massachusetts Sen. Daniel Webster , and North Carolina Sen. Willie P. Mangum—each of whom served as the sole Whig presidential candidate on the ballot for a state or group of states. Harrison, William HenryWilliam Henry Harrison.Library of Congress, Washington D.C. (Digital File Number: cph 3c18276) Daniel Webster.National Portrait Gallery, Smithsonian Institution; gift of Mrs. Gerard B. Lambert (NPG.67.59) Campaign and results With multiple candidates, the upstart Whig Party was successful at attracting support from disparate regions of the country. White in particular was able to harness Southern slaveholders’ growing distrust of Northern politicians—such as Van Buren, a New Yorker—whom they suspected might be sympathetic to the incipient abolition movement. Some Democrats charged that the Whigs, by running several nominees at once, aimed to prevent any one candidate from attaining a majority of electoral votes, which would thereby force the decision to the House of Representatives. However, this does not appear to have been a deliberate strategy. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today While the popular-vote tallies were close, Van Buren was ultimately able to maintain his party’s hold on the presidency, with a total of 170 electoral votes. Harrison, who had demonstrated a populist appeal through active campaigning, won 73 electoral votes, followed by White with 26. (Webster collected only Massachusetts’s 14 votes, and Mangum picked up South Carolina’s 11.) On the vice presidential side of the ticket, continued opposition to Johnson prevented him from reaching an electoral majority. He subsequently won the office by defeating Harrison’s running mate, New York Rep. Francis Granger, in a Senate vote. For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1832. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1840. John M. Cunningham Results of the 1836 election The results of the 1836 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1836 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001). Martin Van Buren Democratic 170 762,678 William Henry Harrison Whig 73 550,816 Hugh L. White Whig 26 146,107 Daniel Webster Whig 14 41,201 W.P. Mangum Anti-Jackson 11 Learn More in these related Britannica articles: William Henry Harrison: Political career Whig Party in the 1836 election. He was nominated as one of the splintered new party’s three candidates at large public meetings in Pennsylvania, New York, and Maryland (the Whigs had neither a unifying platform nor a national convention). In the general election, Harrison attracted a large portion of… Martin Van Buren: Presidency In the election the following year, Van Buren defeated three candidates fielded by the splintered Whig Party, collecting 170 electoral votes to his opponents’ 124. (See primary source document: Inaugural Address.) A deadlock in the electoral college over the vice president ended with Jackson nominating Richard M.… Richard M. Johnson …Van Buren’s vice president in 1836. For the first time in American history, the electoral college could not agree among the four vice presidential candidates, and Johnson was selected by the Senate under the rules of the Twelfth Amendment to the United States Constitution.… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1836 Quick Facts date 1836 participants William Henry Harrison Richard M. Johnson Martin Van Buren Daniel Webster Hugh L. White Willie P. Mangum Francis Granger related topics Democratic Party United States Whig Party Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1836 Additional Information More About External Websites History Central - United States Presidential Election of 1836 United States History - United States Presidential Election of 1836 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!