https://www.britannica.com/biography/Martin-Van-Buren
Martin Van Buren | Biography, Presidency, & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents Martin Van Buren president of United States Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction & Quick Facts Early life Political career: Senate and vice presidency Presidency Later years Cabinet of Pres. Martin Van Buren Martin Van Buren president of United States Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Apr 17, 2020 See Article History Learn how Martin Van Buren founded the Democratic Party and handled the Panic of 1837An overview of Martin Van Buren.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article Martin Van Buren, (born December 5, 1782, Kinderhook, New York, U.S. —died July 24, 1862, Kinderhook ), eighth president of the United States (1837–41) and one of the founders of the Democratic Party. He was known as the “Little Magician” to his friends (and the “Sly Fox” to his enemies) in recognition of his reputed cunning and skill as a politician. Key events in the life of Martin Van Buren.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Early life Van Buren was the third of five children born to Abraham Van Buren, a farmer and tavern keeper, and Maria Hoes Van Alen, both of Dutch descent; he also had one half sister and two half brothers on his mother’s side from her previous marriage. Martin, whose childhood nickname was “Little Mat,” began his education at the village school and later attended the Kinderhook Academy. After classes, he often helped in his father’s tavern, which was frequented by prominent lawyers and politicians, including Alexander Hamilton and Aaron Burr. In 1796 he was apprenticed to the lawyer Francis Silvester, and at age 15 he participated in his first court case, which he won. After completing his legal studies in New York City, Van Buren returned to Kinderhook, where he opened a practice with his half-brother James Van Alen in 1803. In 1807 he married his cousin Hannah Hoes (Hannah Van Buren), with whom he had four children; Hannah died in 1819, and Van Buren never remarried. Van Buren, HannahHannah Van Buren.© Everett Historical/Shutterstock.com Political career: Senate and vice presidency In 1812 Van Buren ran for a seat in the New York Senate; on the campaign trail, he opposed the Bank of the United States and supported the impending war with Great Britain over maritime rights. He was narrowly elected and served two terms (1812–20). During his tenure he was also appointed state attorney general, holding that post from 1815 to 1819. Van Buren developed a reputation as a gifted politician, and his skill was apparent when he created the Albany Regency, an informal political organization in New York state that was a prototype of the modern political machine. It became a powerful force in state politics and helped ensure Van Buren’s election to the U.S. Senate in 1821. Van Buren, who regarded himself as a disciple of Thomas Jefferson, was a member of the Jeffersonian faction of the Republican Party. He supported the doctrine of states’ rights, opposed a strong federal government, and disapproved of federally sponsored internal improvements. After John Quincy Adams was elected president in 1824, Van Buren brought together a diverse coalition of Jeffersonian Republicans, including followers of Andrew Jackson, William H. Crawford, and John C. Calhoun, to found a new political party, which was soon named the Democratic Party. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today In 1828 Van Buren resigned his Senate seat and successfully ran for governor of New York. However, he gave up the governorship within 12 weeks to become Pres. Andrew Jackson’s secretary of state. In this role he was criticized for expanding the system of political patronage, though some later historians considered the criticism unfair. Resigning as secretary of state in 1831 to permit reorganization of the cabinet, he served briefly as minister to Great Britain. In 1832 Van Buren was nominated for the vice presidency by the first national convention of the Democratic Party; he replaced John C. Calhoun as Pres. Jackson’s running mate. The two men ran on a platform that opposed the continued operation of the Bank of the United States. They easily defeated the National Republican ticket of Henry Clay and John Sergeant. Presidency With Jackson’s endorsement, Van Buren was unanimously nominated for president in May 1835. In the election the following year, Van Buren defeated three candidates fielded by the splintered Whig Party, collecting 170 electoral votes to his opponents’ 124. A deadlock in the electoral college over the vice president ended with Jackson nominating Richard M. Johnson. When Van Buren took office in 1837, he became the first president who was born as a U.S. citizen. Almost immediately he faced a national financial panic brought about in part by the transfer of federal funds from the Bank of the United States to state banks during Jackson’s second term. In 1840 Van Buren’s proposal to move federal funds from state banks to an “independent treasury” was passed by Congress after a bitter struggle in which many conservative Democrats deserted to the new Whig Party. Van Buren’s popularity was further eroded by the long and costly war with the Seminole Indians in Florida (the second of the Seminole Wars) and by his failure to support the proposed annexation of the newly independent state of Texas; Texas would have been admitted as a slave state, and Van Buren wanted to avoid any sectional conflicts that would further divide the country over the issue. In 1839, after a series of armed clashes between Americans and Canadians in disputed territory along the Maine–New Brunswick border (the Aroostook War), Van Buren dispatched Gen. Winfield Scott to restore order, and a permanent settlement was negotiated in the Webster-Ashburton Treaty of 1842. In an effort to win the proslavery vote in the election of 1840, Van Buren sided against African slaves on trial in the United States for their part in the Amistad mutiny in 1839. However, the enduring economic crisis and the denial of statehood to Texas contributed to Van Buren being overwhelmingly defeated by the Whig candidate William Henry Harrison, 234 to 60. One of Van Buren’s last acts before leaving office was to order that no person should work more than 10 hours a day on federal public works. A political cartoon from the 1840 presidential campaign, in which Pres. Martin Van Buren, a Democrat, was defeated by the Whig candidate, William Henry Harrison. The cartoon shows Van Buren driving a carriage called “Uncle Sam's Cab,” which wrecks on a pile of “Clay,” representing powerful Whig Sen. Henry Clay. Harrison, depicted as a locomotive, bears down on Van Buren.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (neg. no. LC-USZC4-2859) Martin Van Buren Quick Facts View Media Page born December 5, 1782 Kinderhook, New York died July 24, 1862 (aged 79) Kinderhook, New York title / office presidency of the United States of America, United States (1837-1841) vice president, United States (1833-1837) secretary of state, United States (1829-1831) governor, New York (1828) United States Senate, United States (1821-1828) political affiliation Democratic Party Democratic-Republican Party Free-Soil Party role in Webster–Ashburton Treaty founder of Democratic Party notable family members spouse Hannah Van Buren Load Next Page Martin Van Buren Additional Information More About Additional Reading External Websites The White House - Biography of Martin Van Buren U.S. Department of State - Office of the Historian - Biography of Martin Van Buren Spartacus Educational - Biography of Martin Van Buren USA 4 Kids - Biography of Martin Van Buren Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Martin Van Buren - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) Martin Van Buren - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!