https://www.britannica.com/biography/James-Bryan-Herrick
James Bryan Herrick | American physician | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 James Bryan Herrick American physician Article Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter James Bryan Herrick American physician Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Mar 3, 2020 See Article History James Bryan Herrick, (born Aug. 11, 1861, Oak Park, Ill., U.S.—died March 7, 1954, Chicago), American physician and clinical cardiologist who was the first to observe and describe sickle-cell anemia. Herrick received his M.D. from Rush Medical College in 1888. He worked as an intern at Cook County Hospital and then taught at Rush, where he was professor of medicine from 1900 to 1927. He was also on the staff of Presbyterian Hospital in Chicago from 1895 to 1945. His practice, originally in general medicine, soon developed into a specialization in internal medicine, with a particular emphasis on cardiovascular diseases. Among his published material on what came to be known as sickle-cell anemia was a three-year case history of a black patient suffering from anemia; Herrick’s report on the case included the first description of the crescent-shaped red blood cells characteristic of sickle-cell disease. Later clinicians discovered that the condition is inherited and occurs predominantly in blacks, and others proved that the abnormality of the red blood cell is due to an abnormal form of hemoglobin. Herrick also published definitive accounts of several clinical conditions involving the coronary vessels; he was the first observer to identify and describe the clinical features of coronary thrombosis (obstruction of a coronary artery by a blood clot). He participated in numerous medical associations and, among other honours, was awarded the American Medical Association’s Distinguished Service Medal in 1939. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today This article was most recently revised and updated by Kara Rogers, Senior Editor. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: cardiovascular disease: Myocardial infarction …medical literature in 1912 by James Bryan Herrick, who attributed the syndrome to coronary thrombosis, the development of a clot in a major blood vessel serving the heart. As a result, the disorder was termed coronary thrombosis or coronary occlusion (blockage of a coronary artery). Later evidence indicated, however, that,… sickle cell anemia Sickle cell anemia, hereditary disease that destroys red blood cells by causing them to take on a rigid “sickle” shape. The disease is characterized by many of the symptoms of chronic anemia (fatigue, pale skin, and shortness of breath) as well as susceptibility to infection, jaundice and other eye problems,… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. James Bryan Herrick Quick Facts born August 11, 1861 Oak Park, Illinois died March 7, 1954 (aged 92) Chicago, Illinois subjects of study disease heart sickle cell anemia James Bryan Herrick Additional Information More About External Websites Who Named It - Biography of James Bryan Herrick Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!