https://www.britannica.com/biography/Daniel-Webster
Daniel Webster | American politician | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents Daniel Webster American politician Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction & Quick Facts Youth and early career Rising lawyer and orator Defense of the Constitution Whig leadership Advocate of sectional compromise Legacy Daniel Webster American politician Written By: Richard N. Current See Article History Daniel Webster, (born January 18, 1782, Salisbury, New Hampshire, U.S.—died October 24, 1852, Marshfield, Massachusetts), American orator and politician who practiced prominently as a lawyer before the U.S. Supreme Court and served as a U.S. congressman (1813–17, 1823–27), a U.S. senator (1827–41, 1845–50), and U.S. secretary of state (1841–43, 1850–52). He is best known as an enthusiastic nationalist and as an advocate of business interests during the period of the Jacksonian agrarianism. Youth and early career Born on the New Hampshire frontier in the town of Salisbury, Daniel was the ninth of 10 children of Ebenezer Webster, a veteran of the American Revolution, farmer and tavern-keeper, and leading townsman. Dark-complexioned “little Black Dan,” a rather frail boy, became the pet of his parents and older brothers and sisters, some of whom taught him to read at an early age. He often entertained the family and the tavern guests with readings and recitations. As he grew older he attended classes at the various houses where the schoolmaster boarded in succession around the township. At 14 he spent part of a year at Phillips Exeter Academy, and at 15 he entered Dartmouth College, where he excelled at public speaking. After graduation he taught school and read law, going to Boston and studying in the office of a prominent lawyer. He began his own practice near home but moved to Portsmouth in 1807, married Grace Fletcher, a clergyman’s daughter, and soon became a prominent member of the thriving seaport’s distinguished bar. Webster identified his own interests with those of the Portsmouth shipowners and merchants, who had been prospering through trade with Great Britain and France, despite the occasional seizures of American ships by both warring powers. The Portsmouth businessmen objected to the federal government’s effort to retaliate by limiting and even stopping overseas commerce, and, as their spokesman, Webster denounced the Jefferson administration’s embargo as unconstitutional; he also opposed the declaration of war against Great Britain in 1812. That same year he was elected to the national House of Representatives as a member of the conservative pro-British Federalist Party, which favoured a strong, centralized government and encouragement of commerce. He was twice reelected (1814, 1816). In Congress he resisted the passage of practically all war measures, including a conscription bill, which was voted down. Against conscription he took an extreme states-rights position, even hinting at nullification of federal laws when he said the state governments had a solemn duty to “interpose between their citizens and arbitrary power.” Rising lawyer and orator In 1816 Webster moved with his wife and two children to the more promising metropolis of Boston. Thereafter, he represented the city’s leading businessmen in the law courts and, from 1823 to 1827, again in the national House of Representatives. He became one of the most highly paid lawyers in the entire country. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Arguing a series of important cases before the Supreme Court, he influenced a number of Chief Justice John Marshall’s opinions and, through them, the development of constitutional law. In Dartmouth College v. Woodward (1819) he maintained that a state’s grant of a charter to do business was a contract that the state could not impair. In McCulloch v. Maryland (1819) he contended that a state could not tax a federal agency (a branch of the Bank of the United States), for the power to tax was a “power to destroy.” In Gibbons v. Ogden (1824) he argued that a state could not encroach upon the congressional power to regulate interstate commerce. In arguing these and other cases—which had the effect of enlarging the authority of the federal government while encouraging corporate enterprise—Webster appears to have forgotten his recent states-rights arguments in opposition to the War of 1812. Defense of the Constitution Webster nevertheless remained a strict constructionist of the Constitution on the tariff question, opposing the protective tariffs of 1816 and 1824, which were harmful to the dominant commercial interests of New England. He reasoned that such a stimulus to manufacturers was both unconstitutional and inexpedient, for Congress had been given the power to levy duties only for raising revenue, and the growth of factories would create a propertyless working class that would threaten society. Inspired by political theorists, ancient and modern, he declared that “power naturally and necessarily follows property,” adding that property must remain diffused if widespread suffrage is to be safely maintained. These ideas Webster expressed on various occasions, including, in 1820, the bicentennial celebration of the landing at Plymouth of the Mayflower carrying the first permanent settlers in North America, where he gave the first of several occasional addresses that were to bring him fame as America’s peerless orator. In 1827, now a senator from Massachusetts, Webster started for Washington with his wife, but she died on the way. Rather shy and plain, she had usually remained at home to look after her five children, only three of whom survived her (and only one of whom was to survive Webster himself). After two years, at 47, he married Caroline Le Roy, 31, the pretty and vivacious daughter of a New York merchant. His second wife was less inclined than the first to restrain her husband’s propensities for high living and careless spending. With the rise of textile mills, Massachusetts had acquired a large and powerful manufacturing interest, and Webster voted for the Tariff of 1828. Then and thereafter, as a leading protectionist, he refuted his former arguments against the tariff. He now found a constitutional sanction for it in the congressional power to regulate commerce and a social justification for it in the claim that it would diffuse property by stimulating a general prosperity. But South Carolinians blamed the tariff for their economic difficulties, and in 1830 a South Carolina senator, Robert Y. Hayne, presented the theory postulated by Vice President John C. Calhoun that a state could nullify such an obnoxious and unconstitutional law and, as a last resort, could secede from the Union. In his second reply to Hayne, Webster eloquently defended the powers of the federal government as opposed to the alleged rights of the states. He concluded with the appeal: “Liberty and Union, now and forever, one and inseparable!” The speech made him a hero of nationalists throughout the North. In 1832–33, when South Carolina, under the leadership of the nullification theory’s author, John C. Calhoun, now a senator from South Carolina, undertook to put the theory into practice, Webster, though an opponent of President Andrew Jackson, supported him in resisting the attempt. Daniel Webster Quick Facts View Media Page born January 18, 1782 Salisbury, New Hampshire died October 24, 1852 (aged 70) Marshfield, Massachusetts title / office United States Senate, United States (1845-1850) United States Senate, United States (1827-1841) political affiliation Federalist Party Whig Party role in Compromise of 1850 Bank War Gibbons v. Ogden McCulloch v. Maryland Webster–Ashburton Treaty awards and honors Hall of Fame for Great Americans (1900) Load Next Page Daniel Webster Additional Information More About Additional Reading Quotes External Websites United States Senate - Biography of Daniel Webster U.S. Department of State - Office of the Historian - Biography of Daniel Webster Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Daniel Webster - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) Daniel Webster - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!