https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1840
United States presidential election of 1840 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1840 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction The candidates The campaign Results of the 1840 election United States presidential election of 1840 United States government Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History United States presidential election of 1840, American presidential election held in 1840, in which Whig candidate William Henry Harrison defeated incumbent Democratic Pres. Martin Van Buren. American presidential election, 1840Results of the American presidential election, 1840 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes William Henry Harrison Whig 234 1,275,016 Martin Van Buren Democratic 60 1,129,102 Source: United States Office of the Federal Register.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The candidates By the election of 1840 the two-party system had become firmly entrenched in United States politics, with the Whigs trying to unseat the incumbent Democrats, who had controlled the White House since the election of 1828. The first Whig national convention, held in December 1839, had chosen Harrison over Sen. Henry Clay of Kentucky largely because of Harrison’s military record. In Harrison the Whigs believed they had found a new Andrew Jackson, attractive as a war hero and a frontiersman. To pull in Southern Democrats, the Whigs nominated John Tyler of Virginia for vice president. The third Democratic national convention unanimously renominated Van Buren, one of the founders of the party. His running mate, Richard Johnson, was not formally renominated but became the de facto candidate. Harrison, William HenryWilliam Henry Harrison, detail of an oil painting by Abel Nichols; in the Peabody Essex Museum, Salem, Massachusetts.Courtesy, Peabody Essex Museum, Salem, Massachusetts/Essex Institute Collections Martin Van Buren.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. The campaign Energetic and systematized hoopla surrounded the campaigns of both candidates, with massive rallies on both sides. Pamphlets and party newspapers were widely distributed, and committees and clubs were set up to interact directly with voters. At the time party platforms were still not the norm, but each party’s views were strongly felt—and much repeated. The greatest ideological divide came from views of governmental responsibility. Democrats stressed their interest in a restricted role for the federal government, while Whigs called for a strong central government. Capitalizing on the country’s depressed economic state, the Whigs emphasized Harrison’s simple lifestyle over Van Buren’s relative decadence. He became, as a result, the first “packaged” presidential candidate, depicted as a simple soul from the backwoods. The campaign deliberately avoided discussion of national issues and substituted political songs, partisan slogans, and appropriate insignia: miniature log cabins and jugs of hard cider were widely distributed to emphasize Harrison’s frontier identification, and the cry of “Tippecanoe and Tyler too” rang throughout the land, recalling Harrison’s dramatic triumph at the Battle of Tippecanoe 29 years earlier. Strong campaigning by the Whigs led to an overwhelming victory for Harrison. With the highest voter turnout to date, Harrison won 234 electoral votes to Van Buren’s 60. He was the oldest man, at age 67, ever elected president up to that time. Harrison delivered his inaugural address, which lasted nearly two hours, in a cold drizzle, wearing no gloves or overcoat. He contracted a cold that later developed into pneumonia, and, after one month’s service, he became the first president to die in office. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1836. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1844. Results of the 1840 election The results of the 1840 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1840 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes Source: United States Office of the Federal Register. William Henry Harrison Whig 234 1,275,016 Martin Van Buren Democratic 60 1,129,102 This article was most recently revised and updated by Alison Eldridge, Digital Content Manager. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: William Henry Harrison: Political career In the 1840 election campaign, Harrison won the Whig nomination over Sen. Henry Clay of Kentucky, largely because of Harrison’s military record and noncommittal political views.… Richard M. Johnson In 1840 the Democratic national convention took the unprecedented course of refusing to nominate anyone for the vice presidency. In the ensuing election, Van Buren and Johnson were defeated by the Whig candidates William Henry Harrison and John Tyler. Johnson retired to private life and died… Whig Party Whig Party, in U.S. history, major political party active in the period 1834–54 that espoused a program of national development but foundered on the rising tide of sectional antagonism. The Whig Party was formally organized in 1834, bringing together a loose coalition of groups united in their opposition to what… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1840 Quick Facts date 1840 participants William Henry Harrison Richard M. Johnson John Tyler Martin Van Buren related topics Democratic Party United States Whig Party Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1840 Additional Information More About External Websites United States History - United States Presidential Election of 1840 History Central - United States Presidential Election of 1840 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!