https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1844
United States presidential election of 1844 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1844 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction Shifts in power Campaign and results Results of the 1844 election United States presidential election of 1844 United States government Written By: Richard Pallardy See Article History United States presidential election of 1844, American presidential election held in 1844 in which Democratic candidate James K. Polk defeated Whig candidate Henry Clay with 170 electoral votes to Clay’s 105. American presidential election, 1844Results of the American presidential election, 1844 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes James K. Polk Democratic 170 1,337,243 Henry Clay Whig 105 1,299,062 James Gillespie Birney Liberty 62,103 Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001).Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Shifts in power Incumbent John Tyler, who had been vice president under William Henry Harrison and ascended to the presidency upon the latter’s death, entered 1844 with the intention of running for another term. However, he had been expelled from the Whig Party in 1842 after having twice vetoed the reestablishment of a national bank and, despite having subsequently stacked his cabinet with members of the Democratic Party—from which he had defected in 1836—lacked the full support of that party as well. Though his efforts at recouping power within the latter party failed, his maneuvers toward the annexation of Texas, widely perceived as advancing the cause of slavery, brought expansionism to the forefront of the campaign. The Whigs instead rallied to Henry Clay, who had run for the office (as a National Republican) in 1832 and who was against annexation. The party unanimously nominated him at its convention in Baltimore, Md., in May, with Frederick Theodore Frelinghuysen, the mayor of Newark, N.J., as his running mate. At the Democratic convention (also in Baltimore), the process was not nearly so smooth. The party had balkanized over a number of issues, among them the aforementioned annexation as well as the use of hard money over paper. Martin van Buren, who led the hard-money faction (perceived by many as antibusiness) and seemed at the outset to be the likely candidate, came out in opposition to annexing Texas, a move that cost him the support of followers of former president Andrew Jackson, an expansionist. Polk, who had hoped for only the vice presidential nomination, emerged as the Democrats’ nominee, with a former minister to Russia, the Pennsylvanian George Mifflin Dallas, as his running mate. Polk, James K.James K. Polk.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Campaign and results Although well known in political circles, to the public, Polk was the first “dark horse” presidential nominee. During the campaign, the Whigs taunted the Democrats with the cry: “Who is James K. Polk?” The Democrats countered with assaults on Clay’s moral character. Both slaveholders, Polk and Clay circled the issue of slavery, which arose because of both the proposed annexation of Texas and the entrance upon the scene of the Liberty Party, an antislavery party that nominated James Gillespie Birney, with Thomas Morris of Ohio as his running mate. Polk emerged as the more adept of the two at reconciling the two fundamentally opposed positions on the issue by characterizing it as a states’ rights concern. Clay, whose supporters attempted to portray his positions on slavery differently in the North and South and who attempted to renege on his opposition to annexation, was painted as a vacillator by the Democrats. The Democrats’ strategy, combined with an energetic campaign style that led supporters to call Polk “the Napoleon of the stump,” secured his victory. Political cartoon depicting John Tyler, James K. Polk, and Henry Clay in a race for a “$25,000 prize” (the president's salary), a metaphor for the 1844 presidential campaign.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (file no. LC-USZ62-1275) Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1840. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1848.Richard Pallardy Results of the 1844 election The results of the 1844 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1844 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001). James K. Polk Democratic 170 1,337,243 Henry Clay Whig 105 1,299,062 James Gillespie Birney Liberty 62,103 Learn More in these related Britannica articles: James K. Polk: Early life and career …convention in Baltimore, Maryland, in 1844, Polk hoped only for the vice presidential nomination, for the party had more-prominent sons as presidential contenders in Martin Van Buren, Lewis Cass, and James Buchanan. But the Democrats could not reconcile their differences, and a compromise candidate had to be found. Because the… Democratic Party Democratic Party, in the United States, one of the two major political parties, the other being the Republican Party. The Democratic Party has changed significantly during its more than two centuries of existence. During the 19th century the party supported or tolerated slavery, and it… Whig Party Whig Party, in U.S. history, major political party active in the period 1834–54 that espoused a program of national development but foundered on the rising tide of sectional antagonism. The Whig Party was formally organized in 1834, bringing together a loose coalition of groups united in their opposition to what… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1844 Quick Facts date 1844 participants James Gillespie Birney Henry Clay George Mifflin Dallas Frederick Theodore Frelinghuysen James K. Polk related topics Democratic Party Liberty Party United States Whig Party Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1844 Additional Information More About External Websites History Central - United States Presidential Election of 1844 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!