https://www.britannica.com/biography/James-Gillespie-Birney
James Gillespie Birney | American politician | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 James Gillespie Birney American politician Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter James Gillespie Birney American politician Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History James Gillespie Birney, (born February 4, 1792, Danville, Kentucky, U.S.—died November 25, 1857, Eagleswood, New Jersey), prominent opponent of slavery in the United States who was twice the presidential candidate of the abolitionist Liberty Party. Birney was trained in law and practiced in Danville. He won election to the Kentucky legislature in 1816, and in 1818 he moved to Alabama, where he was elected to the legislature in the following year. There he helped incorporate into the state constitution provisions that empowered the legislature to emancipate slaves and to prohibit selling slaves brought into the state. In 1837 Birney was elected executive secretary of the American Anti-Slavery Society, which soon afterward split, one faction advocating the inflammatory approach of such abolitionists as William Lloyd Garrison and the other, which became the Liberty Party, emphasizing electoral activity. The party nominated Birney as its presidential candidate in 1840 and again in 1844. In 1840 he was a vice president of the World Anti-Slavery Convention in England, where he wrote The American Churches, the Bulwarks of American Slavery (1840). Birney’s career was ended by an injury that invalided him in 1845. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States presidential election of 1844: Campaign and results …an antislavery party that nominated James Gillespie Birney, with Thomas Morris of Ohio as his running mate. Polk emerged as the more adept of the two at reconciling the two fundamentally opposed positions on the issue by characterizing it as a states’ rights concern. Clay, whose supporters attempted to portray… Liberty Party They nominated James G. Birney, a Kentuckian and former slaveholder, for president. The party’s first national convention took place at Albany, New York, on April 1, 1840, when Birney’s nomination was confirmed.… American Anti-Slavery Society American Anti-Slavery Society, (1833–70), promoter, with its state and local auxiliaries, of the cause of immediate abolition of slavery in the United States. As the main activist arm of the Abolition Movement (see abolitionism), the society was founded in 1833 under the leadership of William Lloyd Garrison. By 1840 its auxiliary… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. James Gillespie Birney Quick Facts View Media Page born February 4, 1792 Danville, Kentucky died November 25, 1857 (aged 65) Eagleswood, New Jersey political affiliation Liberty Party James Gillespie Birney Additional Information More About Additional Reading External Websites Ohio History Central - Biography of James Birney Cincinnati History Library and Archives - Biography of James G. Birney Encyclopedia of Alabama - Biography of James G. Birney Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!