https://www.britannica.com/topic/Liberty-Party
Liberty Party | political party, United States | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Liberty Party political party, United States Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Liberty Party political party, United States Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Liberty Party, U.S. political party (1840–48) created by abolitionists who believed in political action to further antislavery goals. In opposition to William Lloyd Garrison and his followers (who scorned political activity as both futile and sinful in the battle to end slavery), a group of abolitionists met in Warsaw, New York, to organize the Liberty Party. They nominated James G. Birney, a Kentuckian and former slaveholder, for president. The party’s first national convention took place at Albany, New York, on April 1, 1840, when Birney’s nomination was confirmed. Birney, James G.James G. Birney.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (Digital File Number:cph.3b50549) Liberty Party supporters realized that the abolition of slavery in the South would not occur through political action. But they hoped to dramatize the antislavery issue, pressure legislators into taking firmer antislavery positions, prevent slavery from extending beyond the states where it existed into the federal territories, and eradicate both the interstate slave trade and the institution itself within the boundaries of the nation’s capital. Although the Liberty Party collected only 7,000 votes in 1840, it raised that total to 62,000 in 1844 (when Birney was again its candidate), probably denying the state of New York—and with it the presidency—to Henry Clay. In January 1848 the party nominated John P. Hale at its convention in New York City. Hale withdrew from the race, and the Liberty Party dissolved when many of its members joined “Barnburner” Democrats and “Conscience” Whigs in forming the Free-Soil Party (August 9, 1848). This article was most recently revised and updated by Amy Tikkanen, Corrections Manager. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: Minor parties The Liberty Party opposed the spread of slavery. All these parties were ephemeral because they proved incapable of mounting a broad appeal that attracted masses of voters in addition to their original constituencies. The Democratic and Whig parties thrived not in spite of their opportunism but… United States presidential election of 1844: Campaign and results …upon the scene of the Liberty Party, an antislavery party that nominated James Gillespie Birney, with Thomas Morris of Ohio as his running mate. Polk emerged as the more adept of the two at reconciling the two fundamentally opposed positions on the issue by characterizing it as a states’ rights… Gerrit Smith …the organization of the antislavery Liberty Party, and in 1848 and 1852 he was nominated for the presidency by the remnant of this organization that had not been absorbed by the Free Soil Party. In 1852 he was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives as an independent. At the… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Liberty Party Quick Facts date 1840 - 1848 related people Salmon P. Chase Gerrit Smith John Parker Hale Samuel Ringgold Ward James Gillespie Birney areas of involvement Abolitionism Liberty Party Additional Information More About External Websites Ohio History Central - Liberty Party Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!