https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1848
United States presidential election of 1848 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1848 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction Candidates and issues Campaign and results Results of the 1848 election United States presidential election of 1848 United States government Written By: John M. Cunningham See Article History United States presidential election of 1848, American presidential election held on Nov. 7, 1848, in which Whig candidate Zachary Taylor defeated Democratic nominee Lewis Cass . American presidential election, 1848Results of the American presidential election, 1848 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes Zachary Taylor Whig 163 1,360,099 Lewis Cass Democratic 127 1,220,544 Martin Van Buren Free Soil 291,501 Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001).Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The results of the 1848 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1848 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001). Zachary Taylor Whig 163 1,360,099 Lewis Cass Democratic 127 1,220,544 Martin Van Buren Free Soil 291,501 Candidates and issues By early 1848 the acquisition of vast amounts of western land by Pres. James K. Polk over the previous two years—as a result of the Mexican-American War (1846–48) and a treaty with Great Britain—had reopened familiar debates concerning the status of slavery within new U.S. territories. Reaction to the Wilmot Proviso of 1846, a congressional proposal to forbid slavery in any territory annexed from Mexico, revealed that the issue remained strongly divisive among the general public. Because Polk had promised during the 1844 presidential campaign to serve only one term, the Democratic Party sought a new candidate at their national convention in Baltimore, Md., in May 1848. Although Secretary of State James Buchanan and Supreme Court justice Levi Woodbury each garnered considerable support on the first ballot, the nomination was ultimately secured by Lewis Cass, a senator from Michigan. Gen. William O. Butler, a former Kentucky representative, became the party’s vice presidential nominee. On the slavery issue, Cass defended the doctrine of popular sovereignty , which held that the residents of federal territories should decide for themselves whether to become a free state or a slave state. Because of intraparty dissent, however, the Democrats decided against incorporating Cass’s position, or any other on the matter, into their party platform. Lewis Cass, engraving from a photograph by Mathew Brady, 1850.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. At the Whig Party convention in Philadelphia in June, delegates gave consideration to U.S. Senators Henry Clay and Daniel Webster—both previous unsuccessful presidential nominees for the party (in 1844 and 1836, respectively)—as well as to army Generals Winfield Scott and Zachary Taylor, whose heroics in both the War of 1812 and the recent Mexican-American War had provided them with broad nonpartisan appeal. The Whigs, perhaps reminded that their only prior presidential victory had been secured by William Henry Harrison, a military hero, gave Taylor the nomination. As its presidential candidate was a slaveholder from Louisiana, the party then selected the New York state comptroller, Millard Fillmore, to balance the ticket. By choosing Taylor, a political novice who had never even voted, and by neglecting to adopt an official platform, the Whigs managed to avoid addressing contentious issues to an even greater extent than the Democrats had. Taylor, ZacharyPortrait of Zachary Taylor in uniform as commander of the U.S. Army during the Mexican-American War.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Within this apprehensive political climate, an alliance of disaffected Democrats, “Conscience” (antislavery) Whigs, and a splintered faction of the Liberty Party formed the Free-Soil Party , which unequivocally pledged opposition to the extension of slavery. At a convention in Buffalo, N.Y., in August, the embryonic party put forward a ticket headed by former president Martin Van Buren . The Free-Soil vice presidential nominee was Charles Francis Adams , a son of John Quincy Adams. Free-Soil PartyCampaign banner for the Free-Soil Party, 1848.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (Digital File Number: cph 3b50339) Campaign and results All three parties campaigned vigorously, and, for the first time, the Whigs and the Democrats established national committees to help direct their efforts. Although popular voting had not been adopted in all states (South Carolina still chose its electors by state legislature), the 1848 election was the first in which all states voted on the same day, owing to federal legislation passed three years earlier that fixed the date of presidential elections in an attempt to deter voter fraud. Campaign banner for Whig Party candidate Zachary Taylor and vice presidential running mate Millard Fillmore, 1848.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (file no. LC-USZC2-584 ) In the end, the Whig Party’s strategy of proffering a popular war hero whose political positions consisted primarily of bromides about national unity succeeded much as it had eight years earlier. Despite concerns about Taylor’s presidential qualifications (he was falsely accused of being illiterate) and, within the party, about his commitment to Whig interests, he defeated Cass by a margin of 163 electoral votes to 127. While the Free-Soil Party failed to collect any electoral votes, it commanded more than 10 percent of the popular vote and finished second, ahead of the Democrats, in three Northern states. For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1844. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1852. John M. Cunningham Results of the 1848 election Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Zachary Taylor: Presidency and death …the Whig Party convention in 1848 Taylor gained the nomination on the fourth ballot. He defeated the Democratic candidate, Lewis Cass, in the general election, winning the electoral college vote 163 to 127. (See primary source document: Inaugural Address.)… Whig Party Whig Party, in U.S. history, major political party active in the period 1834–54 that espoused a program of national development but foundered on the rising tide of sectional antagonism. The Whig Party was formally organized in 1834, bringing together a loose coalition of groups united in their opposition to what… Democratic Party Democratic Party, in the United States, one of the two major political parties, the other being the Republican Party. The Democratic Party has changed significantly during its more than two centuries of existence. During the 19th century the party supported or tolerated slavery, and it… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1848 Quick Facts date November 7, 1848 participants Lewis Cass Millard Fillmore Zachary Taylor Martin Van Buren William Orlando Butler related topics Democratic Party Free-Soil Party United States Whig Party Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1848 Additional Information More About External Websites Maps of World - U.S. Presidential Election 1848 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!