https://www.britannica.com/biography/Zachary-Taylor
Zachary Taylor | Biography, Accomplishments, Death, & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents Zachary Taylor president of United States Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction & Quick Facts Early life and military service Presidency and death Cabinet of President Zachary Taylor Zachary Taylor president of United States Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Apr 17, 2020 See Article History Alternative Title: “Old Rough and Ready” Learn how Zachary Taylor pushed Congress to admit California as a free state before dying in officeAn overview of Zachary Taylor.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article Zachary Taylor, (born November 24, 1784, Montebello plantation, near Gordonsville, Virginia, U.S. —died July 9, 1850, Washington, D.C. ), 12th president of the United States (1849–50). Elected on the ticket of the Whig Party as a hero of the Mexican-American War (1846–48), he died only 16 months after taking office. Key events in the life of Zachary Taylor.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Early life and military service Taylor’s parents, Richard Taylor and Mary Strother, migrated to Kentucky from Virginia shortly after Zachary, the third of their nine children, was born. After spending his boyhood on the Kentucky frontier, Taylor enlisted in the army in 1806 and was commissioned first lieutenant in the infantry in 1808. In 1810 he married Margaret Mackall Smith (Margaret Taylor), with whom he had six children. His daughter Sarah Knox Taylor married Jefferson Davis, the future president of the Confederate States of America, in 1835, and his son, Richard Taylor, fought in the Civil War as a lieutenant general in the Confederate Army. Birthplace of President Zachary Taylor, Montebello plantation, near Gordonsville, Virginia. Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (file no. LC-DIG-csas-05334) Taylor served in the army for almost 40 years, finally advancing to the rank of major general (1846). He commanded troops in the field in the War of 1812, the Black Hawk War (1832), and the second of the Seminole Wars in Florida (1835–42), in which he won promotion to the rank of brigadier general for his leadership in the Battle of Lake Okeechobee (1837). In 1840 he was assigned to a post in Louisiana and established his home in Baton Rouge. Taylor, ZacharyPortrait of Zachary Taylor in uniform as commander of the U.S. Army during the Mexican-American War.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Soon after the annexation of Texas (1845), President James K. Polk ordered Taylor and an army of 4,000 men to the Rio Grande, opposite the Mexican city of Matamoros. A detachment of Mexican troops crossed the Rio Grande and engaged Taylor’s forces in a skirmish (April 25, 1846) that marked the beginning of the Mexican-American War. Two weeks later Mexican troops again crossed the river to challenge Taylor, whose forces decisively defeated the invaders on two successive days in the battles of Palo Alto and Resaca de la Palma (May 8 and 9). On May 13 the United States formally declared war on Mexico. Taylor then led his troops across the Rio Grande and advanced toward Monterrey, capturing the city on September 22–23 and granting the Mexican army an eight-week armistice, an action that displeased Polk. Taylor further alienated Polk by writing a letter, which found its way into the press, criticizing Polk and his secretary of war, William L. Marcy. Polk then ordered Taylor to confine his actions to those necessary for defensive purposes and transferred Taylor’s best troops to the army of General Winfield Scott. The following February, however, Taylor disobeyed these orders and with his diminished force marched south and, in the Battle of Buena Vista, won a brilliant victory over a Mexican army that outnumbered his troops by about four to one. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Presidency and death Having thus won the north of Mexico, Taylor emerged as a hero and began to be seen by Whig politicians as a possible presidential candidate. At the Whig Party convention in 1848 Taylor gained the nomination on the fourth ballot. He defeated the Democratic candidate, Lewis Cass, in the general election, winning the electoral college vote 163 to 127. Campaign banner for Whig Party candidate Zachary Taylor and vice presidential running mate Millard Fillmore, 1848.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (file no. LC-USZC2-584 ) Inauguration of Zachary Taylor, March 5, 1849; engraving by Brightly & Keyser from drawing by William Croome.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (file no. LC-DIG-pga-00307) Taylor’s brief administration was beset with problems, the most perplexing of which was the controversy over the extension of slavery into the newly acquired Mexican territories. By 1848 Taylor had come to oppose the creation of new slave states, and in December 1849 he called for immediate statehood for California, whose new constitution explicitly prohibited slavery. Southerners in Congress, who feared a permanent majority of free states in the Senate, fought bitterly against the proposal, and the controversy was not finally resolved until September of the following year (two months after Taylor’s death), with the adoption of the Compromise of 1850. A further problem was the revelation in mid-1850 of financial improprieties on the part of three members of Taylor’s cabinet. Deeply humiliated, Taylor, who prided himself on honesty, decided to reorganize his cabinet, but before he could do so he died suddenly of an attack of cholera. He was succeeded by Millard Fillmore. President Zachary Taylor (centre) and his cabinet, c. 1849.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (file no. LC-DIG-pga-03222) Cabinet of President Zachary Taylor The table provides a list of cabinet members in the administration of President Zachary Taylor. Cabinet of President Zachary Taylor March 4, 1849–July 9, 1850 State John Middleton Clayton Treasury William Morris Meredith War George Washington Crawford Navy William Ballard Preston Attorney General Reverdy Johnson Interior Thomas Ewing (from March 8, 1849) The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica This article was most recently revised and updated by Adam Augustyn, Managing Editor, Reference Content. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Mexico: The age of Santa Anna: Texas and the Mexican-American War General Zachary Taylor led the main U.S. force to quick victories in northeastern Mexico. At that juncture the government of Mexican president Mariano Paredes y Arrillaga was overthrown, and Santa Anna reemerged as president in September 1846. Almost immediately, Santa Anna mobilized Mexican forces and marched… Abraham Lincoln: Early politics …election of the war hero Zachary Taylor. After Taylor’s success at the polls, Lincoln expected to be named commissioner of the general land office as a reward for his campaign services, and he was bitterly disappointed when he failed to get the job. His criticisms of the war, meanwhile, had… Black Hawk War: Raids and retreat Zachary Taylor) and more than 2,000 Illinois militiamen. In early July, Atkinson’s scouts found an abandoned camp at Lake Koshkonong but could not pick up the band’s trail.… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Zachary Taylor Quick Facts View Media Page born November 24, 1784 Montebello, Virginia died July 9, 1850 (aged 65) Washington, D.C., United States title / office presidency of the United States of America, United States (1849-1850) political affiliation Whig Party role in Black Hawk War War of 1812 Mexican-American War Second Seminole War Battle of Monterrey Battle of Lake Okeechobee Battle of Buena Vista Seminole Wars Battle of Palo Alto notable family members spouse Margaret Taylor Zachary Taylor Additional Information More About Additional Reading External Websites Spartacus Educational - Biography of Zachary Taylor The White House - Biography of Zachary Taylor Texas State Historical Association - The Handbook of Texas Online - Biography of Zachary Taylor HistoryNet - An American Fandango in Monterrey Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Zachary Taylor - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) Zachary Taylor - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!