https://www.britannica.com/biography/Lewis-Cass
Lewis Cass | American politician | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Lewis Cass American politician Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Lewis Cass American politician Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Lewis Cass, (born October 9, 1782, Exeter, New Hampshire, U.S.—died June 17, 1866, Detroit, Michigan), U.S. Army officer and public official who was active in Democratic politics in the mid-19th century. He was defeated for the presidency in 1848. During the War of 1812, Cass rose from the rank of colonel of volunteers to brigadier general in the regular army. He was governor of Michigan Territory from 1813 to 1831. As secretary of war in President Andrew Jackson’s cabinet (1831–36), he directed the conduct of the Black Hawk and Seminole wars. For the next six years, he served as minister to France. As a member of the U.S. Senate (1845–48, 1849–57), Cass became a leader of the 1846 bloc demanding the “reannexation” of all the Oregon country south of latitude 54°40′ N or war with England. He supported President James K. Polk’s administration during the Mexican War (1846–48) and opposed the Wilmot Proviso, an antislavery proposal applying to land acquired from Mexico. In the 1848 presidential campaign, Cass was the Democratic nominee but was defeated by the Whig candidate, Zachary Taylor. He served as secretary of state (1857–60) under President James Buchanan, but he retired from the post when the president refused to take a firmer stance against the secession of the Southern states. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Michigan: U.S. territory …with the new territorial governor, Lewis Cass, who actively encouraged settlement and promoted development. Improvements in transportation and infrastructure were especially significant under Cass’s leadership. In 1818 steamship navigation linked Detroit and Buffalo (N.Y.), inaugurating a new era in lake transportation. Moreover, Cass’s highway chain from Detroit to Chicago (Ill.),… Black Hawk …Jackson and Secretary of War Lewis Cass. Even before they left Washington for Fort Monroe, Cass was already inclined to send them home. As a result, they stayed just a few weeks at the fort, where they spent much of their time sitting for paintings and sketches by various artists.… Zachary Taylor: Presidency and death He defeated the Democratic candidate, Lewis Cass, in the general election, winning the electoral college vote 163 to 127. (See primary source document: Inaugural Address.)… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Lewis Cass Quick Facts View Media Page born October 9, 1782 Exeter, New Hampshire died June 17, 1866 (aged 83) Detroit, Michigan title / office secretary of state, United States (1857-1860) United States Senate, United States (1849-1857) United States Senate, United States (1845-1848) governor, Michigan (1813-1831) role in Black Hawk War Second Seminole War Seminole Wars Lewis Cass Additional Information More About External Websites Biographical Dictionary of the United States Congress - Biography of Lewis Cass Ohio Historical Society - Biography of Lewis Cass Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!