https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1852
United States presidential election of 1852 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1852 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction The Whig Party’s last hurrah Results of the 1852 election United States presidential election of 1852 United States government Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History United States presidential election of 1852, American presidential election held on Nov. 2, 1852, in which Democrat Franklin Pierce defeated Whig Winfield Scott. American presidential election, 1852Results of the American presidential election, 1852 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes Franklin Pierce Democratic 254 1,601,274 Winfield Scott Whig 42 1,386,580 John Parker Hale Free Soil 155,210 Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001).Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The Whig Party’s last hurrah The election of 1852 was contested in the aftermath of the Compromise of 1850, a series of measures passed by the U.S. Congress in an effort to settle outstanding slavery issues and to avert the threat of dissolution of the Union. The campaign itself would be marked by divisions within the political parties over the issue of slavery and would be the last presidential election in which the Whigs participated. Both parties held conventions in June in Baltimore, Md. After a deadlock developed among Democratic supporters of the leading presidential contenders—Lewis Cass, Stephen A. Douglas, William L. Marcy, and James Buchanan—a coalition of New England and Southern delegates proposed the relatively unknown Franklin Pierce, who was nominated on the 49th ballot. Sen. William R. King was chosen as the Democrats’ vice presidential candidate. King, a Buchanan backer, was offered the nomination in an effort to placate Buchanan’s supporters. The Whig Party faced similar difficulty in reaching the required majority for a nomination but on the 53rd ballot settled on Winfield Scott, the foremost American military figure between the Revolution and the Civil War, over Pres. Millard Fillmore and prominent Massachusetts politician Daniel Webster. Both parties’ platforms endorsed and promised to adhere to the Compromise of 1850, with the Democrats more unified in their support and additionally stressing their traditional beliefs in limited government. The campaigns followed the path that had been set out in previous elections, utilizing handbills, parades, and rallies—as well as direct attacks on the opposition. Both candidates were accused of being abolitionist and anti-Catholic. Pierce, FranklinFranklin Pierce.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Scott, WinfieldWinfield ScottU.S. Signal Corps/National Archives, Washington, D.C. The election was marked by low voter turnout—the lowest of any between 1840 and 1860. The North and the South had become so polarized over the slavery issue that the Whigs were no longer able to make a broad national appeal on the basis of “unalterable attachment to the Constitution and the Union.” Despite—and perhaps in part owing to—the Whigs’ best efforts to endear Scott to Catholic and immigrant voters, he won only 42 electoral votes to Pierce’s 254, as many Southern Whigs flocked to the banner of the states’ rights-oriented Democratic Party. At the time of his election, Pierce, age 47, was the youngest man to be elected to the U.S. presidency. His vice president, King, was too ill with tuberculosis to attend the inauguration in March 1853. Taking the oath of office in Cuba, where he had gone in search of a cure, King became the only American vice president to be sworn in on foreign soil. He returned to Alabama a few weeks later, determined to assume his responsibilities, but he died the day after he reached his plantation. Silk ribbon depicting Franklin Pierce, c. 1852.Collection of David J. and Janice L. Frent Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1848. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1856. Results of the 1852 election The results of the 1852 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1852 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001). Franklin Pierce Democratic 254 1,601,274 Winfield Scott Whig 42 1,386,580 John Parker Hale Free Soil 155,210 This article was most recently revised and updated by Alison Eldridge, Digital Content Manager. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Franklin Pierce: Early life and career …of the Democratic Party in 1852. After a deadlock developed among supporters of the leading presidential contenders—Lewis Cass, Stephen A. Douglas, and James Buchanan—a coalition of New England and Southern delegates proposed “Young Hickory” (a reference to Andrew Jackson, who had been known as “Old Hickory”), and Pierce was nominated… Millard Fillmore: Presidency In 1852 Fillmore was one of three presidential candidates of a divided Whig Party in its last national election, which it lost. He ran again in 1856 as the candidate of the Know-Nothing party (also known as the American Party), finishing third behind Democrat James Buchanan… Democratic Party Democratic Party, in the United States, one of the two major political parties, the other being the Republican Party. The Democratic Party has changed significantly during its more than two centuries of existence. During the 19th century the party supported or tolerated slavery, and it… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1852 Quick Facts date November 2, 1852 participants John Parker Hale William Rufus de Vane King Franklin Pierce Winfield Scott related topics Democratic Party Free-Soil Party United States Whig Party Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1852 Additional Information More About External Websites United States History - Election of 1852 Maps of World - 1852 US Election Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!