https://www.britannica.com/biography/Franklin-Pierce
Franklin Pierce | Biography & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents Franklin Pierce president of United States Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction & Quick Facts Early life and career Presidency Cabinet of Pres. Franklin Pierce Franklin Pierce president of United States Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Apr 17, 2020 See Article History Alternative Title: Young Hickory Discover how Franklin Pierce's Kansas-Nebraska Act fueled the slavery debate and led to Bleeding KansasAn overview of Franklin Pierce.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article Franklin Pierce, byname Young Hickory, (born November 23, 1804, Hillsboro, New Hampshire, U.S. —died October 8, 1869, Concord, New Hampshire ), 14th president of the United States (1853–57). He failed to deal effectively with the corroding sectional controversy over slavery in the decade preceding the American Civil War (1861–65). Key events in the life of Franklin Pierce.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Early life and career The son of a governor of New Hampshire, Benjamin Pierce, and the former Anna Kendrick, Franklin Pierce attended Bowdoin College in Maine, studied law in Northampton, Massachusetts, and was admitted to the bar in 1827. He married Jane Means Appleton, whose father was president of Bowdoin, in 1834. Birthplace of President Franklin Pierce, Hillsboro, New Hampshire.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (file no. LC-USZ62-59426) Pierce entered political life in New Hampshire as a Democrat, serving in the state legislature (1829–33), the U.S. House of Representatives (1833–37), and the Senate (1837–42). Handsome, affable, charming, and possessed of a certain superficial brilliance, Pierce made many friends in Congress, but his career there was otherwise undistinguished. He was a devoted supporter of Pres. Andrew Jackson but was continually overshadowed by older and more prominent men on the national scene. Resigning from the Senate for personal reasons, he returned to Concord, where he resumed his law practice and also served as federal district attorney. Except for a brief stint as an officer in the Mexican-American War (1846–48), Pierce remained out of the public eye until the nominating convention of the Democratic Party in 1852. After a deadlock developed among supporters of the leading presidential contenders—Lewis Cass, Stephen A. Douglas, and James Buchanan—a coalition of New England and Southern delegates proposed “Young Hickory” (a reference to Andrew Jackson, who had been known as “Old Hickory”), and Pierce was nominated on the 49th ballot. Franklin Pierce during the Mexican-American War, steel engraving by W.L. Ormsby, c. 1852. Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (file no. LC-DIG-pga-04006) Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today The ensuing presidential campaign was dominated by the controversy over slavery and the finality of the Compromise of 1850. Although both the Democrats and the Whigs declared themselves in favour of the compromise, the Democrats were more thoroughly united in their support. As a result, Pierce, who was almost unknown nationally, unexpectedly won the November election, defeating the Whig candidate Winfield Scott by 254 votes to 42 in the electoral college. Pierce’s triumph was quickly marred by tragedy, however, when, a few weeks before his inauguration, he and his wife witnessed the death of their only surviving child, 11-year-old Bennie, in a railroad accident. Jane Pierce, who had always opposed her husband’s candidacy, never fully recovered from the shock. Pierce-King 1852 campaign bannerCampaign banner for Franklin Pierce and William R. King, the Democratic ticket for the 1852 presidential election. Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (reproduction no. LC-USZC2-2488) Presidency At the time of his election, Pierce, age 47, was the youngest man to have been elected to the presidency. Representing the Eastern element of the Democratic Party, which was inclined for the sake of harmony and business prosperity to oppose antislavery agitation and generally to placate Southern opinion, Pierce tried to promote sectional unity by filling his cabinet with extremists from both sides of the slavery debate. He also attempted to sidestep the fierce sectional antagonisms of the domestic scene by ambitiously and aggressively promoting the extension of U.S. territorial and commercial interests abroad. In an effort to buy the island of Cuba from Spain, he ordered the U.S. minister to Spain, Pierre Soulé, to try to secure the influence of European financiers on the Spanish government. The resulting diplomatic statement, the Ostend Manifesto (October 1854), was interpreted by the American public as a call to wrest Cuba from Spain by force if necessary. The ensuing controversy forced the administration to disclaim responsibility for the document and to recall Soulé. In 1855 an American adventurer, William Walker, conducted a notorious expedition into Central America with the hope of establishing a proslavery government under the control of the United States. In Nicaragua he established himself as military dictator and then as president, and his dubious regime was recognized by the Pierce administration. A more lasting diplomatic achievement came from the expedition that Pres. Millard Fillmore had sent to Japan in 1853 under Commodore Matthew C. Perry. In 1854 Pierce received Perry’s report that his expedition had been successful and that U.S. ships would have limited access to Japanese ports. The Pierce administration also reorganized the diplomatic and consular service and created the United States Court of Claims. Pierce, Franklin: inaugurationContemporary engraving of the inauguration of Franklin Pierce on March 4, 1853. Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (cph 3a07596) Pierce, FranklinFranklin Pierce.Library of Congress, Washington D.C. Pierce, Franklin: inaugural reception"The President's Levee at the White House, Washington, D.C.," from Gleason's Pictorial, vol. 6, March 11, 1854, engraving of the inaugural reception for Franklin Pierce.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (reproduction no. LC-USZ62-30571) Among Pierce’s domestic policies were preparations for a transcontinental railroad and the opening of the Northwest for settlement. In 1853, in order to create a southerly route to California, the U.S. minister to Mexico, James Gadsden, negotiated the purchase of almost 30,000 square miles of Mexican territory (the Gadsden Purchase), for $10 million. Mainly to stimulate migration to the Northwest and to facilitate the construction of a central route to the Pacific, Pierce signed the Kansas-Nebraska Act in 1854. This measure, which opened two new territories for settlement, included repeal of the Missouri Compromise of 1820 (by which slavery in the territories was prohibited north of latitude 36° 30′) and provided that the status of the territories as “free” or “slave” would be decided by popular sovereignty. The indignation aroused by the act and the resulting period of violent conflict in the Kansas Territory were the main causes of the rise of the Republican Party in the mid-1850s. Owing to his ineptness in handling the situation in Kansas, Pierce was denied renomination by the Democrats, and he remains the only president to be so repudiated by his party. After an extended tour of Europe he retired to Concord. Always a heavy drinker, Pierce descended further into apparent alcoholism, and he died in obscurity. U.S. postage stamp commemorating the Gadsden Purchase.© spatuletail/Shutterstock.com Pierce, FranklinFranklin Pierce.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (reproduction no. LC-DIG-pga-00570) Cabinet of Pres. Franklin Pierce The table provides a list of cabinet members in the administration of Pres. Franklin Pierce. Cabinet of President Franklin Pierce March 4, 1853–March 3, 1857 State William Learned Marcy Treasury James Guthrie War Jefferson Davis Navy James Cochran Dobbin Attorney General Caleb Cushing Interior Robert McClelland The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica This article was most recently revised and updated by Adam Augustyn, Managing Editor, Reference Content. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: Popular sovereignty Franklin Pierce (served 1853–57), Douglas bullied, wheedled, and bluffed congressmen into passing his bill.… Nathaniel Hawthorne: First works …old college friend and classmate Franklin Pierce, later to become president of the United States. At the Old Manse, Hawthorne continued to write stories, with the same result as before: literary success, monetary failure. His new short-story collection, Mosses from an Old Manse, appeared in 1846.… Jefferson Davis: Early life and career Franklin Pierce made him secretary of war in 1853. Davis enlarged the army, strengthened coastal defenses, and directed three surveys for railroads to the Pacific. He was also a forceful advocate for what became the Gadsden Purchase.… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Franklin Pierce Quick Facts View Media Page born November 23, 1804 Hillsborough, New Hampshire died October 8, 1869 (aged 64) Concord, New Hampshire title / office presidency of the United States of America, United States (1853-1857) United States Senate, United States (1837-1842) House of Representatives, United States (1833-1837) political affiliation Democratic Party role in Missouri Compromise Treaty of Kanagawa Ostend Manifesto Gadsden Purchase notable family members spouse Jane Pierce Franklin Pierce Additional Information More About Additional Reading External Websites Royal Society of Chemistry - Boron HistoryCentral - Biography of Franklin Pierce The White House - Biography of Franklin Pierce Maps of World - Biography of Franklin Pierce the 14th President of US Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Franklin Pierce - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) Franklin Pierce - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!