https://www.britannica.com/biography/Winfield-Scott
Winfield Scott | United States general | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Winfield Scott United States general Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Winfield Scott United States general Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Scott, WinfieldExamine the career of Winfield Scott, a towering figure in 19th-century military history, who led U.S. forces to victory in the Mexican War and devised the Union's winning strategy in the American Civil War.© Civil War Trust (A Britannica Publishing Partner)See all videos for this article Winfield Scott, (born June 13, 1786, Petersburg, Va., U.S.—died May 29, 1866, West Point, N.Y.), American army officer who held the rank of general in three wars and was the unsuccessful Whig candidate for president in 1852. He was the foremost American military figure between the Revolution and the Civil War. Scott was commissioned a captain of artillery in 1808 and fought on the Niagara frontier in the War of 1812. He was captured by the British in that campaign, but he was exchanged in 1813 and went on to fight in the battles of Chippewa (July 5, 1814) and Lundy’s Lane (July 25), where his success made him a national hero. By war’s end he had attained the rank of major general. Scott remained in military service, studying tactics in Europe and taking a deep interest in maintaining a well-trained and disciplined U.S. Army. In 1838 he supervised the removal of the Cherokee Indians from Georgia and other Southern states to reservations west of the Mississippi River. Scott became commanding general of the U.S. Army in 1841 and served in that capacity until 1861. With the outbreak of the Mexican War (1846–48), Scott recommended General Zachary Taylor for command of the U.S. forces. When Taylor appeared to be making little progress, however, Scott set out himself with a supplementary force on a seaborne invasion of Mexico that captured Veracruz (March 1847). Six months later, after a series of victories, including those at Cerro Gordo, Contreras, Churubusco, Molino del Rey, and Chapultepec, Scott entered Mexico City on September 14, thus ending the war. For this service he was honoured by appointment to the brevet rank of lieutenant general. Despite—or perhaps because of—the fact that he was clearly the most capable American military leader of his time, Scott was bedeviled by political opposition throughout his career. And though he was highly popular with his men, he earned the nickname “Old Fuss and Feathers” because of his emphasis on military formalities and proprieties. A prominent Whig, Scott won his party’s presidential nomination in 1852 but lost the election to Democrat Franklin Pierce, mainly because the Whigs were divided over the issue of slavery. In 1855 he was promoted to lieutenant general, becoming the first man since George Washington to hold that rank. Scott was still commander in chief of the U.S. Army when the Civil War broke out in April 1861, but his proposed strategy of splitting the Confederacy—the plan eventually adopted—was ridiculed. Age forced his retirement the following November. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today This article was most recently revised and updated by William L. Hosch, Associate Editor. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Mexico: The age of Santa Anna: Texas and the Mexican-American War General Winfield Scott was given command of the expedition. On April 18, 1847, he defeated Santa Anna in the critical battle at Cerro Gordo. Though Mexican resistance continued to be formidable, Scott captured Mexico City on Sept. 14, 1847. Santa Anna went into voluntary exile while… American Civil War: The high commands Winfield Scott was the Federal general in chief when Lincoln took office. The 75-year-old Scott—a hero of the War of 1812 and the Mexican-American War—was a magnificent and distinguished soldier whose mind was still keen, but he was physically incapacitated and had to be retired… Abraham Lincoln: President Lincoln …still in Springfield, confidentially requested Winfield Scott, general in chief of the U.S. Army, to be prepared “to either hold, or retake, the forts, as the case may require, at, and after the inauguration.” In his inaugural address (March 4, 1861), besides upholding the Union’s indestructibility and appealing for sectional… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Winfield Scott Quick Facts View Media Page born June 13, 1786 Petersburg, Virginia died May 29, 1866 (aged 79) West Point, New York title / office Commander-in-Chief, United States (1861-1861) political affiliation Whig Party role in American Civil War Mexican-American War Trail of Tears First Battle of Bull Run Battle of Chapultepec Battle of Lundy’s Lane Battle of Cerro Gordo Battle of Chippewa Battle of Contreras battles of Bull Run Winfield Scott Additional Information More About Additional Reading External Websites The Civil War - Biography of General Winfield Scott Spartacus Educational - Biography of Winfield Scott Military History Encyclopedia on the Web - Biography of Winfield Scott Public Broadcasting Service - US Mexican War - Biography of General Winfield Scott Heritage History - Biography of Winfield Scott Encyclopedia Virginia - Biography of Winfield Scott Tulane University - Biography of Winfield Scott Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Winfield Scott - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!