https://www.britannica.com/biography/John-Parker-Hale
John Parker Hale | American politician | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 John Parker Hale American politician Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter John Parker Hale American politician Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Mar 27, 2020 See Article History John Parker Hale, (born March 31, 1806, Rochester, N.H., U.S.—died Nov. 19, 1873, Dover, N.H.), American lawyer, senator, and reformer who was prominent in the antislavery movement. Educated at Phillips Exeter Academy and Bowdoin College, Hale went on to study law and was admitted to the bar in 1830. He became a successful jury lawyer in Dover, N.H., and was known for his oratory and his frequently radical democratic principles. After a term in the state legislature, Hale was in 1834 appointed U.S. district attorney, a position he held until 1841. The following year he won a seat in the U.S. House of Representatives as a Democrat. In the House, Hale came to prominence as a champion of the antislavery forces. In 1846, running as an independent, Hale won a seat in the U.S. Senate. While he maintained his antislavery activity, his major achievement as a senator was the passage of a bill abolishing flogging in the Navy. But it was his prominence in the antislavery movement that led to his receiving the presidential nomination of the Liberty Party in 1847. Hale withdrew his candidacy the following year, when the Free Soil Party absorbed the Liberty Party and ran Martin Van Buren for president. In 1852, however, Hale was the Free Soil candidate and garnered 150,000 votes. From 1852 to 1855 Hale returned to private law practice. In 1855 he was elected to fill the unexpired term of a deceased New Hampshire senator, and in 1858 he won reelection to a full term in the Senate. By this time he had switched to the new Republican Party and was regarded as one of its leaders. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Shortly before his assassination, Pres. Abraham Lincoln appointed Hale minister to Spain. Hale did not do well as a diplomat, however, and he was recalled in 1869. This article was most recently revised and updated by Amy Tikkanen, Corrections Manager. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Liberty Party …January 1848 the party nominated John P. Hale at its convention in New York City. Hale withdrew from the race, and the Liberty Party dissolved when many of its members joined “Barnburner” Democrats and “Conscience” Whigs in forming the Free-Soil Party (August 9, 1848).… Law Law, the discipline and profession concerned with the customs, practices, and rules of conduct of a community that are recognized as binding by the community. Enforcement of the body of rules is through a controlling authority. The law is treated in a number of articles. For a description of legal… Slavery Slavery, condition in which one human being was owned by another. A slave was considered by law as property, or chattel, and was deprived of most of the rights ordinarily held by free persons. There is no consensus on what a slave was or on how the institution of slavery should be defined.… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. John Parker Hale Quick Facts born March 31, 1806 Rochester, New Hampshire died November 19, 1873 (aged 67) Dover, New Hampshire title / office United States Senate, United States (1855-1865) United States Senate, United States (1847-1853) house of representatives, United States (1843-1845) political affiliation Democratic Party Republican Party Free-Soil Party Liberty Party John Parker Hale Additional Information More About External Websites Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. John Parker Hale - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!