https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1856
United States presidential election of 1856 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1856 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction Slavery and popular sovereignty Campaign and results Results of the 1856 election United States presidential election of 1856 United States government Written By: Richard Pallardy See Article History United States presidential election of 1856, American presidential election held on Nov. 4, 1856, in which Democrat James Buchanan defeated Republican John C. Frémont with 174 electoral votes to Frémont’s 114. Whig and former president Millard Fillmore, who ran on the Know-Nothing ticket, garnered only 8 electoral votes. American presidential election, 1856Results of the American presidential election, 1856. Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes James Buchanan Democratic 174 1,838,169 John C. Frémont Republican 114 1,341,264 Millard Fillmore American (Know-Nothing) 8 873,053 Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001).Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Slavery and popular sovereignty The period leading up to the presidential election of 1856 saw the political factions that drove the country’s policies in the midst of a massive realignment. The once-dominant Whigs, enervated by a series of defeats and internecine conflicts, were in a state of collapse, with many members defecting to the splinter parties that formed in the wake of the 1854 passage of the Kansas-Nebraska Act. The act, sponsored by Democratic Sen. Stephen A. Douglas of Illinois, established popular sovereignty as the means by which the Nebraska territory would decide whether to enter the Union as a slave or a free state, thus reviving tensions over slavery that had ostensibly been put to rest by the Compromise of 1850 (which had allowed popular sovereignty to decide the issue in Utah and New Mexico and created California as a free state). The new act claimed that the former provision of the 1850 legislation nullified the Missouri Compromise of 1820, which had established the northern boundary beyond which slavery was not permitted. Northerners were outraged, and the midterm election of 1854 saw the ouster of many Democrats from Congress. Following the shake-up, the former Democrats and Whigs who had engineered the purge gravitated to one of two new parties: the Know-Nothings, an anti-immigration party formed in 1849 that aimed to curtail the political clout of a recent wave of German and Irish Catholic immigrants, and the recently established Republican Party, which opposed slavery. James BuchananJames Buchanan.Courtesy of the National Portrait Gallery, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C.; transfer from the National Gallery of Art; gift of the A.W. Mellon Educational and Charitable Trust, 1942 Campaign and results This fraught climate—exacerbated by Bleeding Kansas, a series of violent episodes that broke out after allegations of voter fraud in the new state—led the remaining Democrats to reject incumbent Franklin Pierce as their nominee, fearing that association with the controversial act would alienate voters. Though Pierce allied with Douglas in an attempt to block the nomination of James Buchanan, who had been chosen because of his distance from the controversies of the day, Douglas ultimately reneged on their agreement and withdrew himself from the running, allowing Buchanan to take the nomination. John C. Breckinridge, a former U.S. senator and representative from Kentucky with ties to Douglas, received the vice presidential nomination. Republicans rallied around John C. Frémont, a U.S. senator from California, with William L. Dayton, a former U.S. senator from New Jersey as his running mate. Former president Millard Fillmore served as the Know-Nothing nominee, with Andrew J. Donelson of Tennessee as his running mate; the Whigs united behind Fillmore rather than proposing their own candidate. During the campaign, the Know-Nothings adopted a more moderate platform that downplayed the party’s opposition to immigration and advocated a rapprochement between the two sides of the slavery issue. The Republicans maintained a vehement antislavery stance, a position that garnered them the votes of most northern states. The Democrats, however, citing the possible dissolution of the Union should antislavery sentiments prevail, managed to win several key northern states, enabling Buchanan to win the White House. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1852. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1860.Richard Pallardy Results of the 1856 election The results of the 1856 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1856 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001). James Buchanan Democratic 174 1,838,169 John C. Frémont Republican 114 1,341,264 Millard Fillmore American (Know-Nothing) 8 873,053 Learn More in these related Britannica articles: James Buchanan: Presidency …was nominated for president in 1856 and was elected, winning 174 electoral votes to 114 for the Republican John C. Frémont and 8 for Millard Fillmore, the American (Know-Nothing) Party candidate. (See primary source document: Inaugural Address.) During the campaign Republican speakers harped on Buchanan’s seemingly heartless statement that ten… Millard Fillmore: Presidency He ran again in 1856 as the candidate of the Know-Nothing party (also known as the American Party), finishing third behind Democrat James Buchanan and Republican John C. Frémont. Fillmore then retired to Buffalo, where he became a leader in the city’s civic and cultural life. In 1858, some… John C. Breckinridge … of Pennsylvania for president in 1856, Breckinridge was a natural choice to balance the ticket between North and South. Once in office, however, Buchanan and Breckinridge—at age 36 the youngest vice president in American history—were unable to fend off the sectional conflict.… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1856 Quick Facts date November 4, 1856 participants John C. Breckinridge James Buchanan Millard Fillmore John C. Frémont William L. Dayton Andrew J. Donelson related topics Democratic Party Know-Nothing party Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1856 Additional Information More About External Websites History Central - Election of 1856 Maps of World - U.S. Presidential Election 1856 United States History - Election of 1856 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!