https://www.britannica.com/biography/Millard-Fillmore
Millard Fillmore | Presidency, Accomplishments, & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents Millard Fillmore president of United States Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction & Quick Facts Early life and career Presidency Cabinet of President Millard Fillmore Millard Fillmore president of United States Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Apr 17, 2020 See Article History Learn about the Whig Party's final U.S. president, Millard Fillmore, and the Compromise of 1850An overview of Millard Fillmore.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article Millard Fillmore, (born January 7, 1800, Locke township, New York, U.S. —died March 8, 1874, Buffalo, New York ), 13th president of the United States (1850–53), whose insistence on federal enforcement of the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850 alienated the North and led to the destruction of the Whig Party. Elected vice president in 1848, he became chief executive on the death of President Zachary Taylor (July 1850). Key events in the life of Millard Fillmore.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Early life and career Fillmore was born in a log cabin to a poor family and was apprenticed to a wool carder at age 15. He received little formal education until he was 18, when he managed to obtain six consecutive months of schooling. Shortly afterward he secured his release from apprenticeship and started work in a law office, and in 1823 he was admitted to the bar. He married his first wife, Abigail Powers (Abigail Fillmore), in 1826. Fillmore entered politics in 1828 as a member of the democratic and libertarian Anti-Masonic Movement and Anti-Masonic Party. In 1834 he followed his political mentor, Thurlow Weed, to the Whigs and was soon recognized as an outstanding leader of the party’s Northern wing. Following three terms in the New York state assembly (1829–32), he was elected to Congress (1833–35, 1837–43), where he became a devoted follower of Senator Henry Clay. Losing the New York gubernatorial election in 1844, he was easily elected the first state comptroller three years later. At the national Whig convention in 1848, Zachary Taylor, hero of the Mexican War (1846–48), was nominated for president and Fillmore for vice president, largely through Clay’s sponsorship. Campaign banner for Whig Party candidate Zachary Taylor and vice presidential running mate Millard Fillmore, 1848.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (file no. LC-USZC2-584 ) Presidency Fillmore believed that Whig success at the polls heralded the rise of a truly national party that would occupy a middle ground between sectional extremists of both North and South. This outlook was embodied in Clay’s Compromise of 1850, which sought to appease both sides on the slavery issue. Fillmore, though personally opposed to slavery, supported the compromise as necessary to preserving the Union. When the legislation was finally passed two months after Taylor’s death, the new President Fillmore felt obligated to respect the provision that required the federal government to aid in the capture and return of runaway slaves to their former owners (the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850), and he publicly announced that, if necessary, he would call upon the military to aid in the enforcement of this statute. Although this section of the compromise assuaged the South and had the effect of postponing the Civil War for 10 years, it also meant political death for Fillmore because of its extreme unpopularity in the North. Millard Fillmore, engraving by J. Sartain.J. Sartain/Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (file no. LC-DIG-pga-02635) Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Fillmore was an early champion of American commercial expansion in the Pacific, and in 1853 he sent a fleet of warships, under the command of Commodore Matthew C. Perry, to Japan to force its shogunate government to alter its traditional isolationism and enter into trade and diplomatic relations with the United States. The resulting Treaty of Kanagawa (1854) led to similar agreements between Japan and other Western powers and marked the beginning of Japan’s transformation into a modern state. In 1852 Fillmore was one of three presidential candidates of a divided Whig Party in its last national election, which it lost. He ran again in 1856 as the candidate of the Know-Nothing party (also known as the American Party), finishing third behind Democrat James Buchanan and Republican John C. Frémont. Fillmore then retired to Buffalo, where he became a leader in the city’s civic and cultural life. In 1858, some five years after the death of his wife Abigail, he married Caroline Carmichael McIntosh.The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Cabinet of President Millard Fillmore The table provides a list of cabinet members in the administration of President Millard Fillmore. Cabinet of President Millard Fillmore July 10, 1850–March 3, 1853 State Daniel Webster Edward Everett (from November 6, 1852) Treasury Thomas Corwin War George Washington Crawford Charles Magill Conrad (from August 15, 1850) Navy William Alexander Graham John P. Kennedy (from July 26, 1852) Attorney General Reverdy Johnson John Jordan Crittenden (from August 14, 1850) Interior Thomas Ewing Thomas McKean Thompson McKennan (from August 15, 1850) Alexander Hugh Holmes Stuart (from September 16, 1850) This article was most recently revised and updated by Adam Augustyn, Managing Editor, Reference Content. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States presidential election of 1856 Whig and former president Millard Fillmore, who ran on the Know-Nothing ticket, garnered only 8 electoral votes.… Abigail Fillmore …lady (1850–53), the wife of Millard Fillmore, 13th president of the United States.… Fugitive Slave Acts Fugitive Slave Acts, in U.S. history, statutes passed by Congress in 1793 and 1850 (and repealed in 1864) that provided for the seizure and return of runaway slaves who escaped from one state into another or into a federal territory. The 1793 law enforced Article IV, Section 2, of the… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Millard Fillmore Quick Facts View Media Page born January 7, 1800 Locke Township, New York died March 8, 1874 (aged 74) Buffalo, New York title / office presidency of the United States of America, United States (1850-1853) vice president of the United States of America, United States (1849-1850) House of Representatives, United States (1837-1843) House of Representatives, United States (1833-1835) political affiliation Whig Party Know-Nothing party role in Fugitive Slave Acts notable family members spouse Abigail Fillmore Millard Fillmore Additional Information More About Additional Reading External Websites United States Senate - Millard Fillmore Maps of World - Biography of Millard Fillmoret the 13th President of US National Park Service - Biography of Millard Fillmore Spartacus Educational - Biography of Millard Fillmore The White House - Biography of Millard Fillmore Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Millard Fillmore - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) Millard Fillmore - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!