https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1860
U.S. Presidential Election of 1860 | Candidates & Results | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1860 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction The conventions The campaign Results of the 1860 election United States presidential election of 1860 United States government Written By: Michael Levy See Article History See how Abraham Lincoln's team including Richard Oglesby helped him win the U.S. presidential election of 1860Abraham Lincoln running for president.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article United States presidential election of 1860, American presidential election held on November 6, 1860, in which Republican Abraham Lincoln defeated Southern Democrat John C. Breckinridge, Democrat Stephen A. Douglas, and Constitutional Union candidate John Bell. The electoral split between Northern and Southern Democrats was emblematic of the severe sectional split, particularly over slavery, and in the months following Lincoln’s election (and before his inauguration in March 1861) seven Southern states, led by South Carolina on December 20, 1860, seceded, setting the stage for the American Civil War (1861–65). American presidential election, 1860Results of the American presidential election, 1860 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes Abraham Lincoln Republican 180 1,866,452 John C. Breckinridge Southern Democratic 72 847,953 Stephen A. Douglas Democratic 12 1,380,202 John Bell Constitutional Union 39 590,901 Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001).Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Top Questions Who were the candidates in the United States presidential election of 1860? Abraham Lincoln of Illinois was the candidate of the generally antislavery Republican Party. The Democratic Party split in two. Sen. Stephen A. Douglas of Illinois, the champion of popular sovereignty policy, was the Northern Democrats’ candidate, and Vice Pres. John C. Breckinridge of Kentucky was the candidate of the Southern Democrats, whose campaign was based on the demand for federal legislation and intervention to protect slaveholding. Sen. John Bell of Tennessee was the candidate of the new Constitutional Union Party, the political home for former Whigs and other moderates who rallied to support the Union and the Constitution without regard to slavery. Read more below: United States presidential election of 1860 Popular sovereignty Learn more about popular sovereignty, the controversial political doctrine that stated that the people of federal territories should decide for themselves whether their territories would enter the Union as free or slave states. Why was the U.S. presidential election of 1860 important? Nothing less than the fate of the Union was at stake in the U.S. presidential election of 1860. The Supreme Court’s Dred Scott decision of 1857, which voided the Missouri Compromise (1820) and made slavery legal in all U.S. territories, confirmed many Americans’ belief that compromise had been exhausted as a solution of the problem of slavery, the source of heated sectional conflict and the most important issue in mid-19th-century America. Many Southerners saw the potential election of Abraham Lincoln, the candidate of the antislavery Republican Party, as a threat to their way of life and the harbinger of secession. United States: Prelude to war, 1850–60 Read more about the factors that led to the Civil War. How the Dred Scott Decision Affected the U.S. Election of 1860 Learn more about how the Dred Scott decision affected the 1860 U.S. presidential election. What was the outcome of the U.S. presidential election of 1860? RepublicanAbraham Lincoln captured less than 40 percent of the vote but won a majority in the electoral college (180 electoral votes) by dominating in the North and the Pacific Coast to become president. Northern Democrat Stephen A. Douglas took nearly 30 percent of the vote but won only Missouri’s 12 electoral votes. Southern Democrat John C. Breckinridge garnered 18 percent of the vote and 72 electoral votes, winning most Southern states plus Delaware and Maryland. Constitutional Unionist John Bell won 12.6 percent of the vote and 39 electoral votes. By Lincoln’s inauguration in March, seven Southern states had seceded. In April the American Civil War began. United States: Secession and the politics of the Civil War, 1860–65 Read more about the politics of the Civil War in the United States article. Secession Read about secession, the withdrawal of 11 slave states from the Union during 1860–61 following the election of Abraham Lincoln as president. What was the “Team of Rivals”? Abraham Lincoln’s chief competitors for the nomination as the presidential candidate of the Republican Party in 1860 were front-runner William H. Seward, a U.S. senator from New York; Salmon P. Chase, the governor of Ohio; and Edward Bates, a prominent state legislator from Missouri. Lincoln, whose sole experience in national government had been as a one-term member of the U.S. House of Representatives from Illinois, confounded contemporary pundits by appointing all three of these political powerhouses to his cabinet: Seward as secretary of state, Chase as secretary of the treasury, and Bates as attorney general. Historian Doris Kearns Goodwin’s book Team of Rivals chronicles their historic collaboration. Abraham Lincoln: The road to presidency Learn more about Lincoln before and after his election in the Abraham Lincoln article. William H. Seward Learn more about William Seward, Lincoln’s secretary of state, who would later spearhead the purchase of Alaska from Russia. The conventions Following on the heels of the Dred Scott decision of 1857, in which the U.S. Supreme Court voided the Missouri Compromise (1820), thus making slavery legal in all U.S. territories, the election of 1860 was sure to further expose sectional differences between those, especially (but not solely) in the North, who wanted to abolish slavery and those who sought to protect the institution. The Democratic Party held its convention in April–May 1860 in Charleston, S.C., where a disagreement over the official party policy on slavery prompted dozens of delegates from Southern states to withdraw. Unable to nominate a candidate (Sen. Stephen A. Douglas received a majority of the delegates’ support but could not amass the required two-thirds majority needed for nomination), Democrats held a second convention in Baltimore, Maryland, on June 18–23, though many of the Southern delegates failed to attend. At Baltimore the Democrats nominated Douglas, who easily defeated Kentuckian John C. Breckinridge, the sitting vice president of the United States. Trying to unite Northern and Southern Democrats, the convention then turned for vice president first to Sen. Benjamin Fitzpatrick of Alabama, who declined nomination, and eventually to Herschel V. Johnson, a former U.S. senator and former governor of Georgia, who was chosen as Douglas’s running mate. Disaffected Democrats, largely Southerners, then nominated Breckinridge, with Sen. Joseph Lane of Oregon as his running mate. Both Douglas and Breckinridge claimed to be the official Democratic candidates. Douglas, Stephen A.Stephen A. Douglas.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Breckinridge, John C.John C. Breckinridge.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. The Republican convention was held in Chicago on May 16–18. The party, which had formed only in the 1850s, was largely opposed to the extension of slavery in the U.S. territories. Though many party members favoured the total abolition of slavery, the party pragmatically did not call for abolition in those states that already had slavery. Entering the convention, Sen. William H. Seward of New York was considered the favourite for the nomination, and on the first ballot he led Abraham Lincoln, who had been defeated in Illinois in 1858 for the U.S. Senate by Douglas, as well as a host of other candidates. On a second ballot the gap between Seward and Lincoln narrowed, and Lincoln was subsequently nominated on the third ballot. Sen. Hannibal Hamlin of Maine was nominated as Lincoln’s running mate. Abraham LincolnAbraham Lincoln, photograph by Mathew Brady.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Election poster, campaign of Abraham Lincoln and Hannibal Hamlin, 1860, lithograph.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Trying to transcend the sectional divide was the Constitutional Union Party, which was formed in 1859 by former Whigs and members of the Know-Nothing Party. The Constitutional Unionists named former senators John Bell of Tennessee and Edward Everett of Massachusetts as their presidential and vice presidential nominees, respectively. The party’s platform particularly appealed to border states in its attempt to ignore the slavery issue and focus instead on fealty to the U.S. Constitution: Bell, JohnJohn Bell.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (Digital File Number: cwpbh-02533) Constitutional Union PartyCampaign poster for the Constitutional Union Party, with John Bell (left) and Edward Everett, 1860. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Resolved, that it is both the part of patriotism and of duty to recognize no political principles other than the Constitution of the country, the Union of the states, and the enforcement of the laws; and that, as representatives of the Constitutional Union men of the country in national convention assembled, we hereby pledge ourselves to maintain, protect, and defend, separately and unitedly, these great principles of public liberty and national safety against all enemies, at home and abroad, believing that thereby peace may once more be restored to the country, the rights of the people and of the states reestablished, and the government again placed in that condition of justice, fraternity, and equality which, under the example and Constitution of our fathers, has solemnly bound every citizen of the United States to maintain a more perfect Union, establish justice, insure domestic tranquillity, provide for the common defense, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity. The campaign After his nomination, Lincoln put aside his law practice and ran a stay-at-home campaign, in which he made no stump speeches, though he did give full time to the direction of his campaign. His “main object,” he had written, was to “hedge against divisions in the Republican ranks,” and he counseled party workers to “say nothing on points where it is probable we shall disagree.” With Republicans united, and with division within the Democratic Party and surrounding Bell’s candidacy, the primary fear that Republicans had was that some disunity might appear and hamper their chances. Breckinridge also did little campaigning, giving only one speech. Douglas, however, was an active campaigner, in both the North and the South, where he gave a passionate defense of the Union and strenuously opposed secession. Still, much of the campaigning that did follow consisted of parades and rallies that boosted interest in the election (on election day some four-fifths of eligible voters turned out). Cartoon from the 1860 presidential election showing three of the candidates—(left to right) Republican Abraham Lincoln, Democrat Stephen A. Douglas, and Southern Democrat John C. Breckinridge—tearing the country apart, while the Constitutional Union candidate, John Bell, applies glue from a tiny, useless pot.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. “The Undecided Political Prize Fight,” a lithograph depicting the presidential campaign of 1860 and featuring Abraham Lincoln and Stephen A. Douglas. Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (LC-USZ62-7877) Flag banner promoting Abraham Lincoln for the presidency in 1860. Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (LC-DIG-ppmsca-19302) Despite four main candidates (and Douglas’s forays into the South), the contests in the states were sectionally fought, with Douglas and Lincoln dominant in the North and Breckinridge and Bell dueling for support in the South. On election day Lincoln captured slightly less than 40 percent of the vote, but he won a majority in the electoral college, with 180 electoral votes, by sweeping the North (with the exception of New Jersey, which he split with Douglas) and also winning the Pacific Coast states of California and Oregon. Douglas won nearly 30 percent of the vote but won only Missouri’s 12 electoral votes. Breckinridge, with 18 percent of the national vote, garnered 72 electoral votes, winning most of the states in the South as well as Delaware and Maryland. Bell, who won 12.6 percent of the vote, secured 39 electoral votes by winning Kentucky, Tennessee, and Virginia. The results in the South are instructive in understanding the deep sectional divide. Lincoln did not win any votes in any state that would form the Confederacy, with the exception of Virginia, where he garnered only 1 percent of the total vote (Douglas won slightly less than 10 percent). By the time of Lincoln’s inauguration in March, seven Southern states had seceded, and barely a month after Lincoln became president, the country became engaged in civil war. The 1860 election is regarded by most political observers as the first of three “critical” elections in the United States—contests that produced sharp and enduring changes in party loyalties across the country (although some analysts consider the election of 1824 to have been the first critical election). After 1860 the Democratic and Republican parties became the major parties in a largely two-party system. In federal elections from the 1870s to the 1890s, the parties were in rough balance—except in the South, which became solidly Democratic. The two parties controlled Congress for almost equal periods, though the Democrats held the presidency only during the two terms of Grover Cleveland (1885–89 and 1893–97). For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1856. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1864.Michael Levy United States presidential election of 1860 Quick Facts date November 6, 1860 participants John Bell John C. Breckinridge Stephen A. Douglas Edward Everett Hannibal Hamlin Abraham Lincoln Joseph Lane Herschel Vespasian Johnson related topics Constitutional Union Party Democratic Party Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America Load Next Page United States presidential election of 1860 Additional Information More About External Websites History Central - Presidential Elections 1860 United States History - Election of 1860 Encyclopedia Virginia - United States Presidential Election of 1860 Social Studies for Kids - The Election of 1860 Maps of World - U.S. Presidential Election 1860 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!