https://www.britannica.com/biography/John-C-Breckinridge
John C. Breckinridge | Biography, Facts, & Party | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 John C. Breckinridge vice president of United States Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter John C. Breckinridge vice president of United States Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Alternative Title: John Cabell Breckinridge John C. Breckinridge, in full John Cabell Breckinridge, (born January 21, 1821, near Lexington, Kentucky, U.S.—died May 17, 1875, Lexington), 14th vice president of the United States (1857–61), unsuccessful presidential candidate of Southern Democrats (November 1860), and Confederate officer during the American Civil War (1861–65). Descended from an old Kentucky family distinguished in law and politics, Breckinridge was the only son of Joseph Cabell Breckinridge and Mary Clay Smith. Graduating from Centre College in Danville, Kentucky, he studied law at Princeton University and Transylvania University. He became an attorney and began his political career in 1849 as a member of the state legislature. In 1851 he was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives. During this troubled antebellum period, he established his reputation as a faithful Democrat, and, when his party nominated James Buchanan of Pennsylvania for president in 1856, Breckinridge was a natural choice to balance the ticket between North and South. Once in office, however, Buchanan and Breckinridge—at age 36 the youngest vice president in American history—were unable to fend off the sectional conflict. Buchanan, James; Breckinridge, John C.National Democratic ticket for the presidential election of 1856, listing candidates James Buchanan and John C. Breckinridge.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C., Printed Ephemera Collection; Portfolio 186, Folder 47 Challenged by the newly formed Republican Party, which resisted extension of slavery into the territories, the Democratic Party broke apart at its national convention in the summer of 1860. The Northern wing nominated Stephen A. Douglas on a platform favouring the doctrine of popular sovereignty, whereby the people of each territory would decide whether to allow slavery within their region’s boundaries, while the Southerners chose Breckinridge on a separate ticket demanding federal intervention to protect slave holdings. Breckinridge insisted that he was not anti-Union but held that slavery could not be banned in a territory until it had become a state. Defeated in the November election by Republican Abraham Lincoln, Breckinridge succeeded John J. Crittenden as United States senator from Kentucky in March 1861 but resigned later that year. He worked for accommodation and compromise, but after Confederate forces fired on Fort Sumter, South Carolina (April 12), in the first engagement of the American Civil War, he maintained that the Union no longer existed and urged Kentucky to feel free to secede (it temporarily remained neutral). Cartoon from the 1860 presidential election showing three of the candidates—(left to right) Republican Abraham Lincoln, Democrat Stephen A. Douglas, and Southern Democrat John C. Breckinridge—tearing the country apart, while the Constitutional Union candidate, John Bell, applies glue from a tiny, useless pot.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. His formal expulsion from the Senate in December was a meaningless gesture because he had already been commissioned a brigadier general in the Confederate army in November. After the Battle of Shiloh (April 6–7, 1862), in which he commanded the reserve, he was promoted to the rank of major general and thereafter took part in many campaigns, including Vicksburg (June 1863), the Wilderness (May 1864), and Shenandoah Valley (1864–65). In the final months of the war, Breckinridge served as Confederate secretary of war, and at the end of the hostilities he fled to England. After a self-imposed exile of three years, he returned to resume his law practice in Lexington, where he died seven years later. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today This article was most recently revised and updated by Michael Ray, Editor. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Democratic Party: Slavery and the emergence of the bipartisan system …convention, where Southern Democrats nominated John C. Breckinridge and Northern Democrats nominated Douglas. The 1860 election also included John Bell, the nominee of the Constitutional Union Party, and Abraham Lincoln, the candidate of the newly established (1854) antislavery Republican Party (which was unrelated to Jefferson’s… United States presidential election of 1860 >John C. Breckinridge, Democrat Stephen A. Douglas, and Constitutional Union candidate John Bell. The electoral split between Northern and Southern Democrats was emblematic of the severe sectional split, particularly over… Judiciary Act of 1801: Repeal and the Judiciary Act of 1802 In January 1802 John Breckinridge of Kentucky, a strong supporter of Jefferson, introduced a bill in the Senate to repeal the Judiciary Act of 1801. After intense debate the Repeal Act narrowly passed the upper chamber, 16–15, in February; the House of Representatives, where the Republicans enjoyed a… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. John C. Breckinridge Quick Facts View Media Page born January 21, 1821 near Lexington, Kentucky died May 17, 1875 (aged 54) Lexington, Kentucky title / office United States Senate, United States (1861-1861) vice president of the United States of America, United States (1857-1861) House of Representatives, United States (1851-1855) political affiliation Democratic Party role in American Civil War Battle of Shiloh John C. Breckinridge Additional Information More About Additional Reading External Websites National Park Service - Biography of John C. Breckinridge American Battlefield Trust - Biography of John C. Breckinridge Spartacus Educational - Biography of John Cabell Breckenridge United States History - Biography of John C. Breckinridge Maps of World - Biography of John. C. Breckinridge Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. John C. Breckinridge - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!