https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1864
United States presidential election of 1864 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1864 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction Wartime discord Momentum for Lincoln Results of the 1864 election United States presidential election of 1864 United States government Written By: John M. Cunningham See Article History United States presidential election of 1864, American presidential election held on Nov. 8, 1864, in which Republican Pres. Abraham Lincoln defeated Democrat George B. McClellan . As the election occurred during the American Civil War , it was contested only by the states that had not seceded from the Union. American presidential election, 1864Results of the American presidential election, 1864 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes Abraham Lincoln Republican 212 2,213,665 George B. McClellan Democratic 21 1,805,237 (Not voted) 81 Source: United States Office of the Federal Register.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Wartime discord Study Copperhead opposition to Abraham Lincoln during the U.S. presidential election of 1864Confronted by Copperhead opposition and by dissension within his cabinet, U.S. Pres. Abraham Lincoln struggled to contain the “fire in the rear” during the Civil War.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article As the 1864 election approached, the prospect that Pres. Abraham Lincoln would gain a second term was very much in doubt. The war between the North and the South had persisted longer than many had anticipated, and the Union army’s efforts in early 1864 provided little hope for an expeditious conclusion. Many Northern Democrats who supported the war as a means of preserving the Union had been dismayed by the Emancipation Proclamation (1863), the promulgation of which suggested to them that slaves’ rights had also become a principal objective of the conflict. At the same time, a faction within Lincoln’s own party—the antislavery Radical Republicans—contended that the actual emancipation of slaves was not being accomplished quickly enough and that the president’s proposals for readmitting Confederate states to the Union were too lenient. Both sides, furthermore, were critical of Lincoln’s wartime restraints on civil liberties. Several names were discussed as potential Republican challengers to Lincoln. In early 1864 Secretary of State Salmon P. Chase began a surreptitious campaign for the nomination but hastily ended it after pamphlets intended for private distribution were leaked to the press. A more formidable challenge came from former Republican presidential nominee John C. Frémont , who in May won the nomination of the Radical Democracy Party, formed by a group of disaffected Republicans. The official convention for Republicans was held in Baltimore several weeks later. Despite misgivings among some Republican party leaders, Lincoln won renomination on the first ballot. More committed to their broad strategic policies than to strict partisanship, the Republicans attempted to siphon the support of pro-war Democrats by temporarily renaming themselves the National Union Party and by replacing Vice Pres. Hannibal Hamlin on the ticket with Andrew Johnson , a former Democratic senator from Tennessee. John C. Frémont.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Brady-Handy photograph collection, Library of Congress, Prints and Photographs Division Abraham Lincoln, photograph by Mathew Brady, 1864.Brady National Photographic Art Gallery/Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (LC-DIG-ppmsca-19211) Although the Democratic Party was generally unified in its opposition to emancipation, in 1864 it found itself divided between those who favoured the continuation of the war and those who sought peace through a negotiated settlement with the South. The former faction found a candidate in Gen. George B. McClellan, who had led the Union army in 1861–62 but was personally contemptuous of Lincoln. The latter faction, centred mainly in the Midwest and popularly known as the Copperheads , gravitated toward New York Gov. Horatio Seymour. At the Democratic convention in August, a compromise was struck whereby McClellan was nominated as the party’s presidential candidate and the Copperheads were allowed authority over the party platform; accordingly, they inserted a plank calling for immediate peace negotiations. In addition, the Democratic vice presidential nominee, Ohio Rep. George Pendleton , was an advocate for peace. Cover of sheet music for “McClellan Is the Man,” poetry by Charles Leighton and music by Henry Cromwell, 1864.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (LC-DIG-ppmsca-19922) The Chicago Platform and Candidate, lithograph by Currier & Ives, 1864.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Momentum for Lincoln As late as August 23, Lincoln considered it “exceedingly probable” that he would not be reelected. However, Union Gen. William Tecumseh Sherman’s capture of Atlanta in early September significantly boosted Northern morale. In the wake of the victory, Frémont withdrew his candidacy, and newspapers and churches both provided enthusiastic endorsements of Lincoln. Though Lincoln did not shift his policies, he appeased the Radical Republicans somewhat by replacing a member of his cabinet whose conservative views on racial issues had come under criticism. Meanwhile, McClellan’s campaign flailed as his repudiation of the peace plank in the Democratic platform provoked further tensions within his party. A Little Game of Bagatelle, Between Old Abe the Rail Splitter & Little Mac the Gunboat General, cartoon by John L. Magee, 1864.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (LC-USZ62-89716) Torchlight procession for George B. McClellan during the U.S. presidential campaign of 1864.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. On election day, Lincoln prevailed handily, winning 212 of 233 total electoral votes. Contributing to his victory were the predominantly Republican votes of Union soldiers, many of whom had been allowed to cast ballots in the field or else had been furloughed to vote in their home districts. McClellan won only the states of Delaware, New Jersey, and Kentucky. The strategic selection of Johnson as a vice presidential candidate proved unexpectedly consequential when Lincoln’s assassination less than two months into his second term elevated Johnson to the presidency. The Commander-in-Chief Conciliating the Soldier's Votes on the Battle Field, lithograph, 1864.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (LC-USZ62-89731) For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1860. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1868. John M. Cunningham Results of the 1864 election The results of the 1864 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1864 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes Source: United States Office of the Federal Register. Abraham Lincoln Republican 212 2,213,665 George B. McClellan Democratic 21 1,805,237 (not voted) 81 Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Abraham Lincoln: Wartime politics …reunited in time for the election of 1864.… Andrew Johnson: The presidency …for vice president on Lincoln’s reelection ticket of 1864. His first appearance on the national stage was a fiasco. On Inauguration Day he imbibed more whiskey than he should have to counter the effects of a recent illness, and as he swayed on his feet and stumbled over his words,… George Pendleton In 1864 he was the Democratic vice presidential nominee, sharing the ticket with the former Union army general George B. McClellan. The Democrats, who made peace their primary issue, were soundly defeated.… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1864 Quick Facts date November 8, 1864 participants Andrew Johnson Abraham Lincoln George B. McClellan George Pendleton related topics Democratic Party Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1864 Additional Information More About External Websites Ciwil War Trust - The Election of 1864 National Park Service - Grant Lincoln and the 1864 Election HistoryNet - Decision 1864: Facts About the Election of 1864 Maps of World - United States Presidential Election 1864 United States History - United States Presidential Election of 1864 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!