https://www.britannica.com/biography/George-B-McClellan
George B. McClellan | United States general | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 George B. McClellan United States general Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter George B. McClellan United States general Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Alternative Title: George Brinton McClellan George B. McClellan, in full George Brinton McClellan, (born December 3, 1826, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, U.S.—died October 29, 1885, Orange, New Jersey), general who skillfully reorganized Union forces in the first year of the American Civil War (1861–65) but drew wide criticism for repeatedly failing to press his advantage over Confederate troops. Graduating second in his class at the U.S. Military Academy, West Point, New York (1846), McClellan served in the Mexican War (1846–48) and taught military engineering at West Point (1848–51). He was then assigned to conduct a series of surveys for railroad and military installations, concluding with a mission to observe the Crimean War (1855–56) to report on European methods of warfare. McClellan resigned his commission in 1857 to become chief of engineering for the Illinois Central Railroad and, in 1860, president of the Ohio and Mississippi Railroad. Although a states’ rights Democrat, he was nevertheless a staunch Unionist, and, a month after the outbreak of the American Civil War (April 1861), he was commissioned in the regular army and placed in command of the Department of the Ohio with responsibility for holding western Virginia. By July 13 the Confederate forces there were defeated, and McClellan had established a reputation as the “Young Napoleon of the West.” Gen. George B. McClellan, his wife, infant daughter, nurse, and mother-in-law at his headquarters near Alexandria, Va.Courtesy Brian C. Pohanka, Alexandria, VA After the disastrous Union defeat at the First Battle of Bull Run the same month, McClellan was placed in command of what was to become the Army of the Potomac. He was charged with the defense of the capital and destruction of the enemy’s forces in northern and eastern Virginia. In November he succeeded General Winfield Scott as general in chief of the army. His organizing abilities and logistical understanding brought order out of the chaos of defeat, and he was brilliantly successful in whipping the army into a fighting unit with high morale, efficient staff, and effective supporting services. Yet he refused to take the offensive against the enemy that fall, claiming that the army was not prepared to move. President Abraham Lincoln was disturbed by McClellan’s inactivity and consequently issued his famous General War Order No. 1 (January 27, 1862), calling for the forward movement of all armies. “Little Mac” was able to convince the president that a postponement of two months was desirable and also that the offensive against Richmond should take the route of the peninsula between the York and James rivers in Virginia. Cover of sheet music for “Parade March of the Great Potomac Army,” dedicated to Gen. George B. McClellan; composed by Chas. Fradel, published by Beer & Schirmer, 1861.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (LC-USZ62-100751) Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today In the Peninsular Campaign (April 4–July 1, 1862), McClellan was never really defeated and actually achieved several victories. But he was overly cautious and seemed reluctant to pursue the enemy. Coming to within a few miles of Richmond, he consistently overestimated the number of troops opposing him, and, when Confederate forces under General Robert E. Lee began an all-out attempt to destroy McClellan’s army in the Seven Days’ Battles (June 25–July 1), McClellan retreated. Lincoln’s discouragement over McClellan’s failure to take Richmond or to defeat the enemy decisively led to the withdrawal of the Army of the Potomac from the peninsula. Returning to Washington as news of the Union defeat at the Second Battle of Bull Run (August 29–30) was received, McClellan was asked to take command of the army for the defense of the capital. Again exercising his organizing capability, he was able to rejuvenate Union forces. When Lee moved north into Maryland, McClellan’s army stopped the invasion at the Battle of Antietam (September 17). But he again failed to move rapidly to destroy Lee’s army, and, as a result, the exasperated president removed him from command in November. Antietam, Battle of: Lincoln and McClellan meet in the general's tentPresident Abraham Lincoln and General George B. McClellan in the general's tent, Antietam, Maryland, October 3, 1862. Photograph by Alexander Gardner.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (LC-B8171-0602 DLC) In 1864 McClellan was nominated for the presidency by the Democratic Party, though he repudiated its platform, which denounced the war as a failure. On election day he resigned his army commission and later sailed for Europe. Returning in 1868, he served as chief engineer of the New York Department of Docks (1870–72) and in 1872 became president of the Atlantic and Great Western Railroad. He served one term as governor of New Jersey (elected 1877) and spent his remaining years traveling and writing his memoirs. The Chicago Platform and Candidate, lithograph by Currier & Ives, 1864.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. This article was most recently revised and updated by Michael Ray, Editor. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: Sectional dissatisfaction George B. McClellan, would defeat him. Davis, at about the same time, was openly attacked by Alexander H. Stephens, the vice president of the Confederacy. But Federal military victories, especially William Tecumseh Sherman’s capture of Atlanta, greatly strengthened Lincoln; and, as the war came to… United States: Fighting the Civil War George B. McClellan was given the job of training the Union’s Army of the Potomac.… American Civil War: The war in 1861 McClellan, in command of Federal forces in southern Ohio, advanced on his own initiative in the early summer of 1861 into western Virginia with about 20,000 men. He encountered smaller forces sent there by Lee, who was then in Richmond in command of all Virginia… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. George B. McClellan Quick Facts View Media Page born December 3, 1826 Philadelphia, Pennsylvania died October 29, 1885 (aged 58) Orange, New Jersey title / office governor, New Jersey (1877-1881) political affiliation Democratic Party role in American Civil War Second Battle of Bull Run Battle of Antietam Seven Days’ Battles Peninsular Campaign Battle of Seven Pines George B. McClellan Additional Information More About Additional Reading External Websites United States History - Biography of George B. McClellan Spartacus Educational - Biography of George McClellan Public Broadcasting Service - Freedom - Biography of George B. McClellan Texas State Historical Association - The Handbook of Texas Online - Biography of George Brinton McClellan History Learning Site - Biography of George McClellan Encyclopedia Virginia - Biography of George B. McClellan Ohio History Central - Biography of George B. McClellan Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. George B. McClellan - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!