https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1868
United States presidential election of 1868 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1868 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction Reconstruction era election Results of the 1868 election United States presidential election of 1868 United States government Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History United States presidential election of 1868, American presidential election held on Nov. 3, 1868, in which Republican Ulysses S. Grant defeated Democrat Horatio Seymour. American presidential election, 1868Results of the American presidential election, 1868 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes Ulysses S. Grant Republican 214 3,012,833 Horatio Seymour Democratic 80 2,703,249 (Not voted) 23 Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001).Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Reconstruction era election The election of 1868 was the first to be held after the American Civil War, and central to its outcome were the issues of Reconstruction of the South and suffrage for the newly freed slaves. Struggles over Reconstruction policy had led to military occupation of former Confederate states and to the impeachment of Pres. Andrew Johnson earlier that year. Republicans favoured civil rights for all, while Democrats opposed the Republicans’ approach to Reconstruction and called for the states to decide on political issues such as suffrage. The Republicans held their national convention in May, in the midst of Johnson’s trial. The convention unanimously selected Ulysses S. Grant, an immensely popular general who had been commander of the Union forces from 1864 to 1865. After some debate, the Republicans nominated Schuyler Colfax, the speaker of the House of Representatives, as his running mate. Some conservative Democratic leaders in the east initially supported former Republican Salmon P. Chase, who had fallen out of favour with Radical Republicans over his criticism of Republican Reconstruction policies. They intended to pit him for nomination against George Pendleton of Ohio, who had gained popularity among western Democrats because of his advocacy of using paper money for national debt. However, when the Democratic convention met in July, Pendleton’s supporters realized that he could not win the nomination and instead threw their support behind New York’s former governor Horatio Seymour, a “Peace Democrat” or Copperhead, denounced by Republicans as being unpatriotic. The Democrats then nominated Francis Preston Blair, Jr., an open critic of Republican Reconstruction policy, as their vice presidential candidate. Ulysses S. GrantUlysses S. Grant.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Seymour, HoratioHoratio Seymour.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (Digital File Number: cwpbh-01843) The Democratic platform remained firm on opposition to Reconstruction, and Republicans were quick to remind the public that their party strove for peace and unity. The last line of Grant’s letter of acceptance of the Republican nomination, “Let us have peace,” became the Republican campaign slogan. Seymour’s chances were dealt a significant blow when a letter Blair had written prior to his nomination was published. In the letter, he had stated his belief that the Reconstruction should be voided and that white Southerners should be allowed to reorganize new governments. Though the Democrats were unable to recover from this incident, the race was close, with Grant’s narrow margin of victory in the popular vote (300,000 ballots) possibly attributable to newly enfranchised black voters. The vote of the electoral college was more one-sided, with Grant garnering 214 votes, compared with 80 for Seymour. With Grant’s election the Republican Reconstruction was allowed to continue, and Congress soon ratified the Fifteenth Amendment, which guaranteed that the right to vote could not be denied on the basis of “race, color, or previous condition of servitude.” Ulysses S. Grant and Schuyler Colfax campaign banner, 1868.Collection of David J. and Janice L. Frent Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1864. For the results of the subsequent election, see United states presidential election of 1872. Results of the 1868 election The results of the 1868 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1868 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001). Ulysses S. Grant Republican 214 3,012,833 Horatio Seymour Democratic 80 2,703,249 not voted 23 This article was most recently revised and updated by Alison Eldridge, Digital Content Manager. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Ulysses S. Grant: Command over Union armies …his nomination for president in 1868. The last line of his letter of acceptance, “Let us have peace,” became the Republican campaign slogan. Grant’s Democratic opponent was Horatio Seymour, former governor of New York. The race was a close one, and Grant’s narrow margin of victory in the popular vote… Republican Party Republican Party, in the United States, one of the two major political parties, the other being the Democratic Party. During the 19th century the Republican Party stood against the extension of slavery to the country’s new territories and, ultimately, for slavery’s complete abolition. During the… Ulysses S. Grant Ulysses S. Grant, U.S. general, commander of the Union armies during the late years (1864–65) of the American Civil War, and 18th president of the United States (1869–77).… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1868 Quick Facts date November 3, 1868 participants Francis Preston Blair, Jr. Schuyler Colfax Ulysses S. Grant Horatio Seymour related topics Democratic Party Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1868 Additional Information More About External Websites United States History - United States Presidential Election of 1868 Maps of World - United States Presidential Election of 1868 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!