https://www.britannica.com/biography/Ulysses-S-Grant
Ulysses S. Grant | Biography, Presidency, & History | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents Ulysses S. Grant president of United States Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction & Quick Facts Early life The Civil War Command over Union armies Grant’s presidency Later life Cabinet of Pres. Ulysses S. Grant Ulysses S. Grant president of United States Written By: John Y. Simon Last Updated: Apr 23, 2020 See Article History Alternative Title: Hiram Ulysses Grant Learn how Civil War vet Ulysses Grant won the presidency but struggled with a country amid ReconstructionAn overview of Ulysses S. Grant.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article Ulysses S. Grant, original name Hiram Ulysses Grant, (born April 27, 1822, Point Pleasant, Ohio, U.S.—died July 23, 1885, Mount McGregor, New York), U.S. general, commander of the Union armies during the late years (1864–65) of the American Civil War, and 18th president of the United States (1869–77). Key events in the life of Ulysses S. Grant.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Top Questions How did Ulysses S. Grant affect the outcome of the American Civil War? Ulysses S. Grant achieved two major Union victories early in the war. He later became commander of all Union forces after seizing Vicksburg, Mississippi. Grant ordered Gen. William Tecumseh Sherman to take Atlanta in the South while he personally marched on the Confederate army in Virginia. Grant’s strategy defeated the Confederacy by 1865. How was Ulysses S. Grant involved in the Civil War? Learn more about what Grant accomplished during the Civil War. What was Ulysses S. Grant’s relationship with the Lakota Indians? Pres. Ulysses S. Grant observed the Second Treaty of Fort Laramie in 1868, which maintained peace with the Lakota Indians on the Great Sioux Reservation. However, he violated the treaty after gold was discovered in the Black Hills. With Grant’s approval the army seized the land and expelled the Lakota by 1877. Learn more. What was Ulysses S. Grant’s policy regarding Reconstruction? After the American Civil War the former Confederate states reinstated their antebellum racial hierarchy through repressive laws and the Ku Klux Klan’s antiblack terrorist activity. Pres. Ulysses S. Grant pushed for black men’s right to vote through the Fifteenth Amendment and supported legislation that punished those who tried to limit that constitutional right. Learn more. Early life Grant was the son of Jesse Root Grant, a tanner, and Hannah Simpson, and he grew up in Georgetown, Ohio. Detesting the work around the family tannery, Ulysses instead performed his share of chores on farmland owned by his father and developed considerable skill in handling horses. In 1839 Jesse secured for Ulysses an appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point, New York, and pressured him to attend. Although he had no interest in military life, Ulysses accepted the appointment, realizing that the alternative was no further education. Grant decided to reverse his given names and enroll at the academy as Ulysses Hiram (probably to avoid having the acronym HUG embroidered on his clothing); however, his congressional appointment was erroneously made in the name Ulysses S. Grant, the name he eventually accepted, maintaining that the middle initial stood for nothing. He came to be known as U.S. Grant—Uncle Sam Grant—and his classmates called him Sam. Standing only a little over five feet tall when he entered the academy, he grew more than six inches in the next four years. Most observers thought his slouching gait and sloppiness in dress did not conform with usual soldierly bearing. Grant ranked 21st in a class of 39 when he graduated from West Point in 1843, but he had distinguished himself in horsemanship and showed such considerable ability in mathematics that he imagined himself as a teacher of the subject at the academy. Bored by the military curriculum, he took great interest in the required art courses and spent much leisure time reading classic novels. Upon graduation Grant was assigned as a brevet second lieutenant to the 4th U.S. Infantry, stationed near St. Louis, Missouri, where he fell in love with Julia Boggs Dent, the sister of his roommate at West Point. They became secretly engaged before Grant left to serve in the Mexican-American War (1846–48) and married upon his return. In the Mexican-American War Grant showed gallantry in campaigns under Gen. Zachary Taylor. He was then transferred to Gen. Winfield Scott’s army, where he first served as regimental quartermaster and commissary. Although his service in these posts gave him an invaluable knowledge of army supply, it did nothing to satiate his hunger for action. Grant subsequently distinguished himself in battle in September 1847, earning brevet commissions as first lieutenant and captain, though his permanent rank was first lieutenant. Despite his heroism, Grant wrote years later: “I do not think there was ever a more wicked war….I thought so at the time…only I had not moral courage enough to resign.” Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today On July 5, 1852, when the 4th Infantry sailed from New York for the Pacific coast, Grant left his growing family (two sons had been born) behind. Assigned to Fort Vancouver, Oregon Territory (later Washington state), he attempted to supplement his army pay with ultimately unsuccessful business ventures and was unable to reunite his family. A promotion to captain in August 1853 brought an assignment to Fort Humboldt, California, a dreary post with an unpleasant commanding officer. On April 11, 1854, Grant resigned from the army. Whether this decision was influenced in any way by Grant’s fondness for alcohol, which he reportedly drank often during his lonely years on the Pacific coast, remains open to conjecture. Settling at White Haven, the Dents’ estate in Missouri, Grant began to farm 80 acres (30 hectares) given to Julia by her father. This farming venture was a failure, as was a real estate partnership in St. Louis in 1859. The next year Grant joined the leather goods business owned by his father and operated by his brothers in Galena, Illinois. The Civil War At the outbreak of the Civil War in April 1861, Grant helped recruit, equip, and drill troops in Galena, then accompanied them to the state capital, Springfield, where Gov. Richard Yates made him an aide and assigned him to the state adjutant general’s office. Yates appointed him colonel of an unruly regiment (later named the 21st Illinois Volunteers) in June 1861. Before he had even engaged the enemy, Grant was appointed brigadier general through the influence of Elihu B. Washburne, a U.S. congressman from Galena. On learning this news and recalling his son’s previous failures, his father said, “Be careful, Ulyss, you are a general now—it’s a good job, don’t lose it!” To the contrary, Grant soon gained command of the District of Southeast Missouri, headquartered at Cairo, Illinois. Ulysses S. GrantUlysses S. Grant.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. In January 1862, dissatisfied with the use of his force for defensive and diversionary purposes, Grant received permission from Gen. Henry Wager Halleck to begin an offensive campaign. On February 16 he won the first major Union victory of the war, when Fort Donelson, on the Cumberland River in Tennessee, surrendered with about 15,000 troops. When the garrison’s commander, Gen. Simon B. Buckner, requested his Union counterpart’s terms for surrender, Grant replied, “No terms except unconditional surrender can be accepted. I propose to move immediately upon your works.” For many, from that point on Grant’s initials would stand for “unconditional surrender.” Promoted to major general, Grant repelled an unexpected Confederate attack on April 6–7 at Shiloh Church, near Pittsburg Landing, Tennessee, but the public outcry over heavy Union losses in the battle damaged Grant’s reputation, and Halleck took personal command of the army. However, when Halleck was called to Washington as general in chief in July, Grant regained command. Before the end of the year, he began his advance toward Vicksburg, Mississippi, the last major Confederate stronghold on the Mississippi River. Displaying his characteristic aggressiveness, resilience, independence, and determination, Grant brought about the besieged city’s surrender on July 4, 1863. When Port Hudson, Louisiana, the last post on the Mississippi, fell a few days later, the Confederacy was cut in half. General Ulysses S. Grant (far left) with (left to right) General John Rawlins, General Joseph Webster, Colonel Clark Lagow, and Colonel Killyer at Lookout Mountain, Tennessee, 1863.Courtesy, Colorado Historical Society, Denver (image no. F7289) Ulysses S. Grant Quick Facts View Media Page born April 27, 1822 Point Pleasant, Ohio died July 23, 1885 (aged 63) Mount McGregor, New York title / office presidency of the United States of America, United States (1869-1877) Commander-in-Chief, United States (1864-1865) political affiliation Republican Party role in American Civil War Battle of Appomattox Court House Vicksburg Campaign Alabama claims Battle of Cold Harbor Battle of the Wilderness Battle of Spotsylvania Court House Petersburg Campaign Battle of Shiloh Crédit Mobilier Scandal awards and honors Hall of Fame for Great Americans (1900) notable family members spouse Julia Grant did you know? Grant and his wife had been invited to the performance at Ford's Theatre at which President Abraham Lincoln was in attendance when he was assassinated, but they had declined. Grant was the United States' first four-star general. During his presidency, Grant signed legislation authorizing the National Weather Service, Yellowstone National Park, and the Department of Justice. President Grant tried unsuccessfully to annex the Dominican Republic, then known as Santo Domingo. Load Next Page Ulysses S. Grant Additional Information More About Additional Reading External Websites American Battlefield Trust - Biography of Ulysses S. Grant United States Senate - Biography of Ulysses S. Grant The White House - Biography of Ulysses S. Grant Spartacus Educational - Biography of Ulysses S. Grant Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Ulysses S. Grant - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) Ulysses S. Grant - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!