https://www.britannica.com/biography/Horatio-Seymour
Horatio Seymour | American politician | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Horatio Seymour American politician Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Horatio Seymour American politician Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Horatio Seymour, (born May 31, 1810, Onondaga county, N.Y., U.S.—died Feb. 12, 1886, Utica, N.Y.), governor of New York and Democratic candidate for president in 1868. Seymour was admitted to the New York state bar in 1832. He then served as military secretary to Governor William L. Marcy (1833–39), was a member of the New York Assembly (1842–46), and was elected mayor of Utica in 1842. Nominated for governor in 1850, he failed to win election but succeeded two years later. In 1854, however, he lost his bid for a second term, mainly because of his opposition to a bill prohibiting the sale of intoxicating liquor. A conservative in national politics, Seymour advocated compromise to preserve the Union and avoid war. When the Civil War began he gave his full support to the Union cause, but he opposed President Lincoln’s policies on emancipation, conscription, and military arrests. As governor of New York (1863–65) he felt that the draft quotas discriminated against New York City, and he appealed to Lincoln to remedy the situation. When draft riots occurred in the city in July 1863 he took measures to put down the disorders, but his conciliatory attitude toward the rioters weakened him politically. After the war Seymour was active in the movement to rebuild the fragmented Democratic Party. In 1868 he was nominated as the Democratic candidate to run against General Ulysses S. Grant; although the popular vote was fairly close, Seymour received only 80 electoral votes to Grant’s 214. Seymour retired to private life, but remained active in New York state politics. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today This article was most recently revised and updated by Amy Tikkanen, Corrections Manager. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Abraham Lincoln: Wartime politics …of one of them, Governor Horatio Seymour of New York, in regard to the draft quota for that state. He commuted the prison sentence of another, Congressman Clement L. Vallandigham of Ohio, to banishment within the Confederate lines. In dealing with persons suspected of treasonable intent, Lincoln at times authorized… Ulysses S. Grant: Command over Union armies Grant’s Democratic opponent was Horatio Seymour, former governor of New York. The race was a close one, and Grant’s narrow margin of victory in the popular vote (300,000 ballots) may have been attributable to newly enfranchised black voters. The vote of the electoral college was more one-sided, with Grant… United States presidential election of 1868 Grant defeated Democrat Horatio Seymour.… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Horatio Seymour Quick Facts View Media Page born May 31, 1810 Onondaga, New York died February 12, 1886 (aged 75) Utica, New York political affiliation Democratic Party Horatio Seymour Additional Information More About External Websites The Lehrman Institute Presents: Mr. Lincoln and New York - Biography of Horatio Seymour Spartacus Educational - Biography of Horatio Seymour Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!