https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1872
United States presidential election of 1872 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1872 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction Republican factionalization Results of the 1872 election United States presidential election of 1872 United States government Written By: Richard Pallardy See Article History United States presidential election of 1872, American presidential election held November 5, 1872, in which Republican incumbent Ulysses S. Grant defeated Liberal Republican and Democratic candidate Horace Greeley with 286 electoral votes. Though 66 electoral votes had been pledged to Greeley, he died shortly after the election, and the votes were divided between five other candidates. American presidential election, 1872Results of the American presidential election, 1872 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes 1Greeley died shortly after the election in November. Three electors pledged to him cast their votes for him, but they were not counted; the others cast their votes for the other candidates listed. Ulysses S. Grant Republican 286 3,597,132 Horace Greeley1 Democratic/ Liberal Republican 2,834,125 Charles O'Conor Straight Out Democratic 18,602 Thomas A. Hendricks Independent-Democratic 42 B. Gratz Brown Democratic 18 Charles J. Jenkins Democratic 2 David Davis Democratic 1 (Not voted) 17 Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001).Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Republican factionalization Early in Grant’s first term as president, it became apparent that his civil service appointments and those made by his political allies had been largely motivated by cronyism rather than merit. The pervasive appointment of unqualified friends and associates of Grant and his allies, coupled with the adherence of the party leadership to Reconstruction policies such as federal military occupation of the South and the ensuring of civil rights for former slaves, bred resentment among Republicans who had been shut out of positions of power. This faction rallied around a new platform that advocated a reduction in government intervention in the economy (particularly protective tariffs), a return to a gold and silver currency standard, and a reduction in patronage. Ulysses S. Grant.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Rallied by Sen. Carl Schurz of Missouri and Sen. Charles Sumner of Massachusetts, the dissidents, now calling themselves Liberal Republicans, held a convention in Cincinnati, Ohio, in May to nominate a challenger to Grant. Though the early favourite was Charles Francis Adams, son of former president John Quincy Adams, the diplomat lacked personal magnetism and proved unpopular. New York Tribune editor Horace Greeley emerged from the pack, jockeying for the nomination after his supporters engineered a deal with those advocating for B. Gratz Brown, governor of Missouri. The prominence of his newspaper accounted for much of his support, as his positions were more conservative that those held by most Liberal Republicans: he was a proponent of the protective tariff and of temperance. Brown filled the vice presidential slot on the ticket. The Democrats, fearing that this new faction would detract from their vote, refrained from nominating their own candidate and instead supported Greeley and Brown. Horace Greeley.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. The election also saw the first female candidate for U.S. president (though women had not yet achieved suffrage). Victoria Woodhull, a radical social campaigner and one of the first female stockbrokers, had announced her candidacy in 1870 and was officially nominated by the Equal Rights Party in May 1872, with famed abolitionist Frederick Douglass as her ostensible running mate, though it is not certain that he ever accepted the position. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Grant, as expected, ran for reelection, though he replaced Vice Pres. Schuyler Colfax with Henry Wilson as his running mate. Grant engaged in no active campaigning, while Greeley was pilloried in the press as a Southern sympathizer—he advocated amnesty for Southern leaders, including Jefferson Davis. He famously commented that he “hardly knew whether [he] was running for the presidency or the penitentiary.” Nevertheless, Greeley ultimately captured some 44 percent of the popular vote (to Grant’s 56 percent). Before the electoral votes were tallied, however, Greeley was institutionalized (perhaps as a result of the intensity of the attacks he had sustained and his loss of control over his newspaper), and he died before the electoral votes were cast. Greeley’s electors went on to divide their votes between several splinter parties. (Woodhull did not receive any electoral votes.) Grant easily won reelection with 286 electoral votes. Cartoon by Thomas Nast supporting Ulysses S. Grant's reelection as president in 1872. It depicts a mouse (as presidential candidate Horace Greeley) emerging from a pile of mud labeled “Liberal Mountain.”Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1868. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1876.Richard Pallardy Results of the 1872 election The results of the 1872 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1872 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes *Greeley died shortly after the election in November. Three electors pledged to him cast their votes for him, but they were not counted; the others cast their votes for the other candidates listed. Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001). Ulysses S. Grant Republican 286 3,597,132 Horace Greeley* Democratic/Liberal Republican 2,834,125 Charles O'Conor Straight Out Democratic 18,602 Thomas A. Hendricks Independent-Democratic 42 B. Gratz Brown Democratic 18 Charles J. Jenkins Democratic 2 David Davis Democratic 1 not voted 17 Richard Pallardy Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Ulysses S. Grant: Grant’s presidency Grant easily won reelection in 1872, defeating Horace Greeley, the editor of the New York Tribune and the candidate for the coalition formed by Democrats and Liberal Republicans, by nearly 800,000 votes in the popular election and capturing 286 of 366 electoral votes. (See primary source document: Second Inaugural Address.)… Republican Party Republican Party, in the United States, one of the two major political parties, the other being the Democratic Party. During the 19th century the Republican Party stood against the extension of slavery to the country’s new territories and, ultimately, for slavery’s complete abolition. During the… Ulysses S. Grant Ulysses S. Grant, U.S. general, commander of the Union armies during the late years (1864–65) of the American Civil War, and 18th president of the United States (1869–77).… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1872 Quick Facts date November 5, 1872 participants Ulysses S. Grant Horace Greeley Thomas A. Hendricks Henry Wilson B. Gratz Brown related topics Democratic Party Liberal Republican Party Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1872 Additional Information More About External Websites Maps of World - U.S. Presidential Election 1872 United States History - Election of 1872 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!