https://www.britannica.com/biography/Horace-Greeley
Horace Greeley | American journalist | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Horace Greeley American journalist Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Horace Greeley American journalist Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Horace Greeley, (born Feb. 3, 1811, Amherst, N.H., U.S.—died Nov. 29, 1872, New York, N.Y.), American newspaper editor who is known especially for his vigorous articulation of the North’s antislavery sentiments during the 1850s. Greeley was a printer’s apprentice in East Poultney, Vt., until moving to New York City in 1831, where he eventually became a founding editor of a new literary paper, The New-Yorker (1834). A liberal Whig, Greeley caught the attention of New York political boss Thurlow Weed and was asked to issue political campaign weeklies during the elections of 1838 and 1840. These publications substantially aided the Whig cause and marked the beginning of Greeley’s political partnership with Weed and New York Gov. William H. Seward (U.S. secretary of state, 1861–69)—a partnership that lasted until 1854. Greeley’s journalistic success encouraged him to embark on a more ambitious newspaper venture. The New York Tribune, which he founded in 1841 and edited until his death, became a daily Whig paper dedicated to a medley of reforms, economic progress, and the elevation of the masses. The Tribune set a particularly high standard in its news gathering, intellectual interest, and moral fervour. Greeley, who published a prodigious trove of cogent articles and editorials, came to be considered the outstanding newspaper editor of his time; his large and competent staff (which included European correspondence from Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, who wrote under Marx’s name) cooperated to make the paper a political bible for many readers throughout the North. Reflecting his highly moral New England upbringing, Greeley was an unrelenting foe of liquor, tobacco, gambling, prostitution, and capital punishment. He became, in the words of Harper’s Weekly (1869), “the most perfect Yankee the country has ever produced.” Because of Greeley’s eclectic interests, many causes found a voice in the pages of the Tribune. While The New York Times cultivated a sober tone of moderation, and the New York Herald was jingoistic and often pro-business and pro-South, the Tribune defied categorization, promoting a wide variety of interests and causes. Greeley urged a number of educational reforms, especially free common-school education for all; he championed producers’ cooperatives but opposed woman suffrage. He also pushed for Western expansion but did not coin, as commonly claimed, the famous phrase “Go West, young man.” (See Researcher’s Note.) In the early 1850s Greeley became increasingly bitter over the failure of his Whig colleagues to support him for high public office—a lifelong ambition. He also grew disenchanted with the party’s ambivalence toward slavery, which he opposed on both moral and economic grounds. In 1854 he transferred his allegiance to the newly emerging Republican Party, which he helped organize. Throughout the decade Greeley’s newspaper fed the rising antislavery persuasion of the North. His editorial columns consistently opposed any compromise on the slavery issue as he argued against popular sovereignty (local option) in the territories, called for unrestricted free speech and mail privileges for abolitionists, encouraged Free-Soilers (who opposed slavery in the Kansas Territory), and advocated forcible resistance to federal fugitive-slave hunters. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today After the onset of the Civil War (1861), Greeley pursued an erratic course, though generally he sided with the Radical Republicans in advocating early emancipation of the slaves and, later, civil rights for freedmen. Greeley lost much public respect by opposing Lincoln’s renomination in 1864 and by signing the bail bond of former Confederate president Jefferson Davis in 1867. Partly out of political pique and partly from disagreement with the corruption apparent in the first administration of Pres. Ulysses S. Grant (1869–73), Greeley joined a group of Republican dissenters, forming the Liberal Republican Party. The party opposed Grant in 1872 and nominated Greeley for president. In the dreary campaign that followed, he was so mercilessly criticized that, as he said, he scarcely knew whether he was running for the presidency or the penitentiary. Despite his party’s inexperience, Greeley polled more than 40 percent of the popular vote. Before the electoral college met, however, Greeley was institutionalized (perhaps as a result of the intensity of the attacks he had sustained and his loss of control over his newspaper), and he died before the electoral votes were cast. All but 3 of the 66 electoral votes pledged to him went to four minor candidates. Vanity Fair caricature of Horace Greeley by Thomas Nast, 1872. This print, dated July 20, ran over the caption “Statesmen, No. 118 ‘Anything to Beat Grant.' ”National Portrait Gallery, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C.; Gift of the Trustees, National Portrait Gallery, London Cartoon by Thomas Nast supporting Ulysses S. Grant's reelection as president in 1872. It depicts a mouse (as presidential candidate Horace Greeley) emerging from a pile of mud labeled “Liberal Mountain.”Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. This article was most recently revised and updated by Richard Pallardy, Research Editor. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: history of publishing: The United States …substantial one, and in 1841 Horace Greeley introduced the New York Tribune. Whereas Bennett was an entertainer, Greeley was a campaigner, the first of the many idealists and crusaders who were to occupy American newspaper offices. Many pieces in the Tribune reflected the proprietor’s fierce opposition to slavery and ultimately… Abraham Lincoln: Leadership in war And when Horace Greeley in the New York Tribune appealed to him to enforce these laws, Lincoln patiently replied (August 22, 1862):… Ulysses S. Grant: Grant’s presidency in 1872, defeating Horace Greeley, the editor of the New York Tribune and the candidate for the coalition formed by Democrats and Liberal Republicans, by nearly 800,000 votes in the popular election and capturing 286 of 366 electoral votes. (See primary source document: Second Inaugural Address.) During the… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Horace Greeley Quick Facts View Media Page born February 3, 1811 Amherst, New Hampshire died November 29, 1872 (aged 61) New York City, New York political affiliation Liberal Republican Party Horace Greeley Additional Information More About Additional Reading Researcher's Note External Websites Spartacus Educational - Biography of Horace Greeley Dictionary of Canadian Biography Online - Biography of Horace Greeley The Lehrman Institute Presents: Mr. Lincoln and New York - Biography of Horace Greeley United States History - Biography of Horace Greeley Tulane University - Biography of Horace Greeley Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Horace Greeley - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!