https://www.britannica.com/biography/Thomas-A-Hendricks
Thomas A. Hendricks | vice president of United States | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Thomas A. Hendricks vice president of United States Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Thomas A. Hendricks vice president of United States Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Alternative Title: Thomas Andrews Hendricks Thomas A. Hendricks, (born Sept. 7, 1819, near Zanesville, Ohio, U.S.—died Nov. 25, 1885, Indianapolis, Ind.), long-time Democratic Party politician and 21st vice president of the United States (March 4–November 25, 1885) in the administration of President Grover Cleveland. Hendricks was the son of John Hendricks, a farmer and a deputy surveyor of lands, and Jane Thomson. His grandfather served in the Pennsylvania legislature and his uncle was a governor and United States senator from Indiana. Thomas Hendricks was admitted to the bar in 1843 and began his public career as a representative (1848) in the Indiana legislature. He served as a member of the United States House of Representatives (1851–55), as commissioner of the U.S. General Land Office (1855–59), as U.S. senator (1863–69), and as governor of Indiana (1873–77). He was loyal to the Union but opposed many aspects of the Republican-dominated military effort in the American Civil War (1861–65) and the subsequent Reconstruction program for the South. He favoured leniency toward white supremacists in the South and opposed all legislation aimed at assisting freedmen, whether politically or economically. From 1863 until his death Hendricks was prominent in national Democratic politics. He was the vice-presidential running mate of Samuel J. Tilden in the disputed election of 1876, losing by the decision of a special Electoral Commission. In 1880 he expressed interest in becoming a presidential nominee but was unsuccessful. Nominated as vice president again in 1884, he was finally elected with Cleveland but died less than nine months after his inauguration. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States presidential election of 1876: The candidates …the first ballot he led Thomas A. Hendricks, the governor of Indiana. After a second ballot Tilden secured the nomination, and Hendricks was chosen as his running mate.… United States presidential election of 1884: The candidates …chose as his running mate Thomas A. Hendricks, former governor of Indiana.… Democratic Party Democratic Party, in the United States, one of the two major political parties, the other being the Republican Party. The Democratic Party has changed significantly during its more than two centuries of existence. During the 19th century the party supported or tolerated slavery, and it… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Thomas A. Hendricks Quick Facts View Media Page born September 7, 1819 near Zanesville, Ohio died November 25, 1885 (aged 66) Indianapolis, Indiana title / office vice president of the United States of America, United States (1885-1885) governor, Indiana (1873-1877) United States Senate, United States (1863-1869) House of Representatives, United States (1851-1855) political affiliation Democratic Party Thomas A. Hendricks Additional Information More About External Websites Ohio History Central - Biography of Thomas A. Hendricks Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Thomas A. Hendricks - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!