https://www.britannica.com/biography/David-Davis
David Davis | United States jurist and politician | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 David Davis United States jurist and politician Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter David Davis United States jurist and politician Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Mar 5, 2020 See Article History David Davis, (born March 9, 1815, Cecil county, Md., U.S.—died June 26, 1886, Bloomington, Ill.), American politician, a close associate of Abraham Lincoln. He was a Supreme Court justice and senator during the antebellum, American Civil War, and postwar eras. After graduating from Kenyon College in 1832, Davis earned a law degree from Yale in 1835. He was admitted to the Illinois bar the same year and in 1836 established a practice in Bloomington. Always politically ambitious, Davis was elected to the Illinois legislature in 1844 on the Whig ticket. He attended the state constitutional convention of 1847 and the following year began a 14-year career as a circuit judge. It was as a judge that Davis became a close friend of Abraham Lincoln. At the Republican convention of 1860 and in the presidential campaign that followed, Davis worked assiduously for Lincoln’s nomination and election. In February 1861 he accompanied the president-elect to Washington, D.C., and served as an adviser until Lincoln appointed him to the Supreme Court in 1862. Davis was never a supporter of the more extreme antislavery wing of the Republican Party, and he angered much of the party with his majority opinion in the Ex parte Milligan case of 1866. While still a justice, Davis in 1872 accepted the presidential nomination of the Labor Reform Convention as a stepping-stone to securing the nomination of the Liberal Republican Party. When the party instead nominated Horace Greeley, Davis withdrew as the Labor candidate. He then drifted closer to the Democrats, who expected him to cast the decisive vote for Samuel J. Tilden on the Electoral Commission of 1877. But Davis disqualified himself from the commission when he resigned from the Supreme Court in 1877 to accept election by the Illinois legislature to the U.S. Senate. He served one term in the Senate, the last two years as president pro tem. Upon his retirement in 1883, Davis returned to Bloomington. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today This article was most recently revised and updated by Amy Tikkanen, Corrections Manager. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States presidential election of 1876: The disputed election …independent, the Supreme Court justice David Davis. Davis refused to serve, however, after the Republican-controlled legislature of Illinois engineered to have him elected to the state’s vacant Senate seat, and Justice Joseph P. Bradley, a Republican, was named in his place by the other four justices.… National Labor Union As such it nominated David Davis of Illinois, associate justice of the U.S. Supreme Court, as its presidential candidate. Davis withdrew his candidacy, however, and the party made a poor showing at the polls. After holding one last convention in 1873, the National Labor Union collapsed and disappeared.… Abraham Lincoln Abraham Lincoln, 16th president of the United States (1861–65), who preserved the Union during the American Civil War and brought about the emancipation of the slaves.… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. David Davis Quick Facts View Media Page born March 9, 1815 Cecil, Maryland died June 26, 1886 (aged 71) Bloomington, Illinois title / office United States Senate, United States (1877-1883) supreme court, United States (1862-1877) Supreme Court of the United States, United States (1862-1877) political affiliation Republican Party Whig Party role in Ex Parte Milligan David Davis Additional Information More About External Websites Oyez - Biography of David Davis Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. David Davis - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!