https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1876
United States presidential election of 1876 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1876 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction The candidates The platforms The disputed election Results of the 1876 election United States presidential election of 1876 United States government Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History United States presidential election of 1876, disputed American presidential election held on November 7, 1876, in which Republican Rutherford B. Hayes defeated Democrat Samuel J. Tilden. Tilden led Hayes by more than 260,000 popular votes, and preliminary returns showed Tilden with 184 electoral votes (one shy of the majority needed to win the election) to Hayes’s 165, with the 19 electoral votes of three states (Florida, Louisiana, and South Carolina) and one elector from Oregon (originally awarded to Tilden) still in doubt. The U.S. Congress subsequently created an Electoral Commission, which by early March 1877 had resolved all the disputed electoral votes in favour of Hayes, giving him a 185–184 electoral college victory. American presidential election, 1876Results of the American presidential election, 1876 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes Rutherford B. Hayes Republican 185 4,036,298 Samuel J. Tilden Democratic 184 4,300,590 Peter Cooper Greenback 75,973 Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001).Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The candidates After the Civil War ended in 1865, the Republicans held a stranglehold on the presidency, with Gen. Ulysses S. Grant winning easily in both 1868 and 1872. But Grant’s administration and the Republicans generally had been beset by scandals and allegations of corruption, such as the Crédit Mobilier Scandal and the Whiskey Ring. The Democrats entered 1876 on an upswing, having won control of the House of Representatives in 1874, and from the outset the election was expected to be competitive. The Republicans held their convention in Cincinnati, Ohio, in mid-June, and the front-runner for their nomination was James G. Blaine of Maine, the speaker of the House of Representatives. Republican reformers, however, hoped to thwart his nomination. Blaine led after the first ballot but without enough votes to secure the nomination. Among the challengers to Blaine were Roscoe Conkling, a senator from New York and a prominent Republican leader in the post-Civil War period; Oliver H.P.T. Morton, a senator from Indiana and that state’s former governor; Benjamin Helm Bristow, the U.S. secretary of the Treasury (1874–76) and successful prosecutor of the Whiskey Ring; and Rutherford B. Hayes, the governor of Ohio. Eventually, with the withdrawal of Bristow, Conkling, and Morton in favour of Hayes, Hayes secured the nomination on the seventh ballot, and William A. Wheeler, a senator from New York, was selected as his running mate. Hayes’s unblemished public record and high moral tone (as well as his deep sympathy toward the South) offered a striking contrast to widely publicized accusations of corruption in the Grant administration. Rutherford B. Hayes.Library of Congress (neg. no. LC-USZ62-13019 ) The Democrats held their convention two weeks later in St. Louis, Missouri—the first time a national convention was held west of the Mississippi. Samuel J. Tilden, the governor of New York, strongly appealed to delegates from Southern states, and on the first ballot he led Thomas A. Hendricks, the governor of Indiana. After a second ballot Tilden secured the nomination, and Hendricks was chosen as his running mate. Tilden, SamuelSamuel J. Tilden, photograph by Mathew Brady.Courtesy of the Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. U.S. presidential election of 1876: Tilden/Hendricks campaign broadsheetBroadsheet for the Samuel J. Tilden and Thomas A. Hendricks 1876 presidential campaign; woodcut with letterpress and stenciled colouring by Haasis & Lubrecht.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (digital file no. 01431v) Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today The platforms The 1876 election occurred in the midst of an economic depression in the United States and continuing sectional animosity, particularly in the South, where opposition to federal occupation and Reconstruction had grown. Many Republicans had grown weary of Reconstruction and had come to believe that the time for compromise with Southern whites was at hand. Still, the Republicans continued their strong commitment to the civil rights of emancipated slaves, their party platform stating that “the permanent pacification of the Southern section of the Union and the complete protection of all its citizens in the free enjoyment of all their rights, are duties to which the Republican party is sacredly pledged.” It further criticized the Democratic Party for its lack of commitment to civil rights, arguing that the “party counts, as its chief hope of success, upon the electoral vote of a united South, secured through the efforts of those who were recently arrayed against the nation and we invoke the earnest attention of the country to the grave truth, that a success thus achieved would reopen sectional strife and imperil national honor and human rights.” Rutherford B. Hayes and William A. Wheeler campaign pennant, 1876.Collection of David J. and Janice L. Frent Meanwhile, the Democratic platform called for “immediate reform” of the federal government and, to forestall Republican charges of sectionalism, committed itself to the “permanence of the Federal Union.” It also called for civil service reform and restrictions on Chinese immigration to the United States. United States presidential election of 1876 Quick Facts date November 7, 1876 participants Rutherford B. Hayes Thomas A. Hendricks Samuel J. Tilden William A. Wheeler related topics Democratic Party Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America Load Next Page United States presidential election of 1876 Additional Information External Websites Social Studies for Kids - The Election of 1876 Maps of World - U.S. Presidential Election 1876 History Central - Election of 1876 United States History - Election of 1876 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!