https://www.britannica.com/biography/Rutherford-B-Hayes
Rutherford B. Hayes | Biography, Presidency, & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents Rutherford B. Hayes president of United States Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction & Quick Facts Early political life Presidency and later life Cabinet of President Rutherford B. Hayes Rutherford B. Hayes president of United States Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Apr 17, 2020 See Article History Alternative Title: Rutherford Birchard Hayes Meet the president who ended Reconstruction, fought government corruption, and reintroduced the gold standardAn overview of Rutherford B. Hayes.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article Rutherford B. Hayes, in full Rutherford Birchard Hayes, (born October 4, 1822, Delaware, Ohio, U.S. —died January 17, 1893, Fremont, Ohio ), 19th president of the United States (1877–81), who brought post-Civil War Reconstruction to an end in the South and who tried to establish new standards of official integrity after eight years of corruption in Washington, D.C. He was the only president to hold office by decision of an extraordinary commission of congressmen and Supreme Court justices appointed to rule on contested electoral ballots. Key events in the life of Rutherford B. Hayes.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Read More on This Topic United States: The Rutherford B. Hayes administration President Hayes (served 1877–81) willingly carried out the commitments made by his friends to secure the disputed Southern votes needed… Early political life Hayes was the son of Rutherford Hayes, a farmer, and Sophia Birchard. After graduating from Kenyon College at the head of his class in 1842, Hayes studied law at Harvard, where he took a bachelor of laws degree in 1845. Returning to Ohio, he established a successful legal practice in Cincinnati, where he represented defendants in several fugitive-slave cases and became associated with the newly formed Republican Party. In 1852 he married Lucy Ware Webb (Lucy Hayes), a cultured and unusually well-educated woman for her time. After combat service with the Union army, he was elected to Congress (1865–67) and then to the Ohio governorship (1868–76). Rutherford B. Hayes and his wife, Lucy, on their wedding day, December 30, 1852. Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (file no. LC-USZ61-900) In 1875, during his third gubernatorial campaign, Hayes attracted national attention by his uncompromising advocacy of a sound currency backed by gold. The following year he became his state’s favourite son at the national Republican nominating convention, where a shrewdly managed campaign won him the presidential nomination. Hayes’s unblemished public record and high moral tone offered a striking contrast to widely publicized accusations of corruption in the administration of President Ulysses S. Grant (1869–77). An economic depression, however, and Northern disenchantment with Reconstruction policies in the South combined to give Hayes’s Democratic opponent, Samuel J. Tilden, a popular majority, and early returns indicated a Democratic victory in the electoral college as well. Hayes’s campaign managers challenged the validity of the returns from South Carolina, Florida, and Louisiana, and as a result two sets of ballots were submitted from the three states. The ensuing electoral dispute became known as the Tilden-Hayes affair. Eventually a bipartisan majority of Congress created a special Electoral Commission to decide which votes should be counted. As originally conceived, the commission was to comprise seven Democrats, seven Republicans, and one independent, the Supreme Court justice David Davis. Davis refused to serve, however, and the Republican Joseph P. Bradley was named in his place. While the commission was deliberating, Republican allies of Hayes engaged in secret negotiations with moderate Southern Democrats aimed at securing acquiescence to Hayes’s election. On March 2, 1877, the commission voted along strict party lines to award all the contested electoral votes to Hayes, who was thus elected with 185 electoral votes to Tilden’s 184. The result was greeted with outrage and bitterness by some Northern Democrats, who thereafter referred to Hayes as “His Fraudulency.” Hayes, Rutherford B.Rutherford B. Hayes, photograph by Mathew B. Brady.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (Digitial File Number: cwpbh-03606) Campaign material for Rutherford B. Hayes (left) and William A. Wheeler for the 1876 U.S. presidential election. Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (file no. LC-DIG-pga-03113) Presidency and later life As president, Hayes promptly made good on the secret pledges made during the electoral dispute. He withdrew federal troops from states still under military occupation, thus ending the era of Reconstruction (1865–77). His promise not to interfere with elections in the former Confederacy ensured a return there of traditional white Democratic supremacy. He appointed Southerners to federal positions, and he made financial appropriations for Southern improvements. These policies aroused the animosity of a conservative Republican faction known as the Stalwarts, who were further antagonized by the president’s efforts to reform the civil service by substituting nonpartisan examinations for political patronage. Hayes’s demand for the resignation of two top officials in the New York customhouse (including Chester Arthur, the future president) provoked a bitter struggle with New York senator Roscoe Conkling. Rutherford B. Hayes.Photos.com/Thinkstock Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today During the national railroad strikes of 1877, Hayes, at the request of state governors, dispatched federal troops to suppress rioting. His administration was under continual pressure from the South and West to resume silver coinage, outlawed in 1873. Many considered this proposal inflationary, and Hayes sided with the Eastern, hard-money (gold) interests. Congress, however, overrode his veto of the Bland-Allison Act (1878), which provided for government purchase of silver bullion and restoration of the silver dollar as legal tender. In 1879 Hayes signed an act permitting women lawyers to practice before the Supreme Court. Rutherford B. Hayes with two of his sons.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (file no. LC-DIG-cwpbh-04816) Hayes refused renomination by the Republican Party in 1880, contenting himself with one term as president. In retirement he devoted himself to humanitarian causes, notably prison reform and educational opportunities for Southern black youth.The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Cabinet of President Rutherford B. Hayes The table provides a list of cabinet members in the administration of President Rutherford B. Hayes. Cabinet of President Rutherford B. Hayes March 4, 1877-March 3, 1881 State William Maxwell Evarts Treasury John Sherman War George Washington McCrary Alexander Ramsey (from December 12, 1879) Navy Richard Wigginton Thompson Nathan Goff, Jr. (from January 6, 1881) Attorney General Charles Devens Interior Carl Schurz This article was most recently revised and updated by Adam Augustyn, Managing Editor, Reference Content. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: The Rutherford B. Hayes administration President Hayes (served 1877–81) willingly carried out the commitments made by his friends to secure the disputed Southern votes needed for his election. He withdrew the federal troops still in the South, and he appointed former senator David M. Key of… United States: The Ulysses S. Grant administrations, 1869–77 …program, and the nomination of Rutherford B. Hayes of Ohio, a moderate Republican of high principles and of deep sympathy for the South, marked the end of the Radical domination of the Republican Party.… Paraguay: Reconstruction Rutherford B. Hayes decided one key boundary issue in 1878 in favour of Paraguay. When the army of occupation was removed in 1876, it left a crowd of Paraguayan politicians noted for their corruption and ambition. In 1887 Paraguay’s two major political parties, the Liberal… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Rutherford B. Hayes Quick Facts View Media Page born October 4, 1822 Delaware, Ohio died January 17, 1893 (aged 70) Fremont, Ohio title / office presidency of the United States of America, United States (1877-1881) governor, Ohio (1868-1876) House of Representatives, United States (1865-1867) political affiliation Republican Party notable family members spouse Lucy Hayes Rutherford B. Hayes Additional Information More About Additional Reading External Websites Spartacus Educational - Biography of Rutherford Hayes The White House - Biography of Rutherford B. Hayes Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Rutherford B. Hayes - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) Rutherford B. Hayes - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!