https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1880
United States presidential election of 1880 | Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1880 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction The candidates The campaign and the election Results of the 1880 election United States presidential election of 1880 United States government Written By: John M. Cunningham See Article History United States presidential election of 1880, American presidential election held on November 2, 1880, in which Republican James A. Garfield defeated Democrat Winfield Scott Hancock. Among presidents who won the popular vote, Garfield’s margin of victory remains the narrowest in history. American presidential election, 1880Results of the American presidential election, 1880 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes James A. Garfield Republican 214 4,454,416 Winfield Scott Hancock Democratic 155 4,444,952 James B. Weaver Greenback 305,997 Neal Dow Prohibition 9,674 Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001).Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The candidates Because Pres. Rutherford B. Hayes had pledged to serve only one term, the run-up to the 1880 election saw both major parties eagerly seeking to designate a standard-bearer. The Stalwarts—a conservative faction of the Republican Party that included powerful party leaders such as New York Sen. Roscoe Conkling—favoured former president Ulysses S. Grant. Though Grant’s presidency had been marred by scandal, in 1877–79 he had undertaken a well-publicized world tour that boosted his reputation both at home and abroad, and while he did not actively seek the nomination, it was understood that he would accept it if offered. Other Republican elements, however, rejected Grant out of a concern that his nomination would reopen fissures within the party and that a third term would set an unwise precedent. At the nominating convention in Chicago in early June, those opposed to Grant generally backed either Maine Sen. James G. Blaine or Secretary of the Treasury John Sherman. However, neither commanded wide support, and when the convention deadlocked, the anti-Grant faction united around Ohio Rep. James A. Garfield, who had eloquently campaigned for Sherman. Despite his own reluctance to become a candidate, Garfield won the nomination. Chester A. Arthur, a Stalwart who had served as the customs collector for the port of New York City, emerged as Garfield’s running mate. Republican National Convention, Chicago, 1880.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Garfield, James A.James A. Garfield, 1880.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. One of the most-discussed names on the Democratic side was the party’s previous nominee, former New York governor Samuel J. Tilden, who some thought deserved a chance to avenge his controversial loss of four years earlier. As the party’s convention—held in Cincinnati, Ohio, in late June—got under way, however, Tilden declared that he would not be a candidate. Despite challenges from an impressive slate of contenders, Gen. Winfield Scott Hancock, a Union commander during the Civil War and the respected military governor of Louisiana and Texas during Reconstruction, captured the nomination on the second ballot. The Democrats’ vice presidential nominee was former Indiana representative William H. English. Hancock, Winfield ScottWinfield Scott HancockLibrary of Congress, Washington, D.C. (reproduction no. LC-USZ62-53819) The campaign and the election Several issues emerged as key concerns during the 1880 campaign. While the Republicans stressed the need for strong tariff protection in an effort to curb foreign competition in the economic marketplace, the Democratic platform called for a more-relaxed tariff policy. Both parties favoured civil service reform, although the Democrats pressed the issue more vehemently, accusing both Garfield and Arthur of political corruption. (In particular, Garfield was alleged to have been involved in the Crédit Mobilier Scandal.) An aim to restrict Chinese immigration also featured in both parties’ platforms. Campaign poster for James A. Garfield and Chester A. Arthur, 1880.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (file no. LC-USZC4-6109) Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today In an era when it was still considered unseemly for a candidate to court voters actively, Garfield conducted the first “front-porch” campaign, from his home in Mentor, Ohio, where reporters and voters went to hear him speak. Hancock demonstrated the potential perils of personally addressing the media, however, when, in a newspaper interview in October, he claimed that “the tariff question is a local question,” a somewhat dubious remark that seemed to highlight his lack of political experience. On election day Garfield triumphed with 214 electoral votes to Hancock’s 155. The popular vote totals were much closer, though, with Garfield edging Hancock by fewer than 10,000 votes. The electoral map attested to the country’s profound sectional divide, as Hancock carried every state that had belonged to the Confederacy as well as the border states of Missouri, Kentucky, West Virginia, Maryland, and Delaware. Additionally, 3 percent of voters cast ballots for the Greenback Party, which advocated an expanded currency along with government regulation of labour and industry. For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1876. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1884.John M. Cunningham Results of the 1880 election The results of the 1880 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1880 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001). James A. Garfield Republican 214 4,454,416 Winfield Scott Hancock Democratic 155 4,444,952 James B. Weaver Greenback 305,997 Neal Dow Prohibition 9,674 Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: The Rutherford B. Hayes administration …for the Republican nomination in 1880: Grant, the choice of the “Stalwart” faction led by Senator Conkling; James G. Blaine, the leader of the rival “Half-Breed” faction; and Secretary of the Treasury Sherman. Grant had a substantial and loyal bloc of delegates in the convention, but their number was short… James A. Garfield: Road to the presidency At the Republican presidential convention the same year in Chicago, the delegates were divided into three principal camps: the “Stalwarts” (conservatives led by powerful New York Sen. Roscoe Conkling), who backed former president Ulysses S. Grant; the “Half-Breed” (moderate) supporters of Maine Sen. James G. Blaine; and those… Republican Party Republican Party, in the United States, one of the two major political parties, the other being the Democratic Party. During the 19th century the Republican Party stood against the extension of slavery to the country’s new territories and, ultimately, for slavery’s complete abolition. During the… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1880 Quick Facts date November 2, 1880 participants Chester A. Arthur Neal Dow James A. Garfield Winfield Scott Hancock James B. Weaver William H. English related topics Democratic Party Prohibition Party Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1880 Additional Information More About External Websites Maps of World - U.S. Presidential Election 1880 United States History - Election of 1880 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!