https://www.britannica.com/biography/James-A-Garfield
James A. Garfield | Biography, Facts, & Assassination | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents James A. Garfield president of United States Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction & Quick Facts Early life and political career Road to the presidency Presidency Assassination Cabinet of Pres. James A. Garfield James A. Garfield president of United States Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Apr 17, 2020 See Article History Alternative Title: James Abram Garfield Observe how former president Garfield thwarted the spoils system before being assassinated by a StalwartAn overview of James A. Garfield.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article James A. Garfield, in full James Abram Garfield, (born November 19, 1831, near Orange [in Cuyahoga county], Ohio, U.S. —died September 19, 1881, Elberon [now in Long Branch], New Jersey ), 20th president of the United States (March 4–September 19, 1881), who had the second shortest tenure in U.S. presidential history. When he was shot and incapacitated, serious constitutional questions arose concerning who should properly perform the functions of the presidency. Garfield, James A.James A. Garfield, 1880.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Key events in the life of James A. Garfield.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Early life and political career The last president born in a log cabin, Garfield was the son of Abram Garfield and Eliza Ballou, who continued to run the family’s impoverished Ohio farm after her husband’s death in 1833. Garfield dreamed of foreign ports of call as a sailor but instead worked for about six weeks guiding mules that pulled boats on the Ohio and Erie Canal, which ran from Lake Erie to the Ohio River. By his own estimate, Garfield, who did not know how to swim, fell into the canal some 16 times and contracted malaria in the process. Always studious, he attended Western Reserve Eclectic Institute (later Hiram College) at Hiram, Ohio, and graduated (1856) from Williams College. He returned to the Eclectic Institute as a professor of ancient languages and in 1857, at age 25, became the school’s president. A year later he married Lucretia Rudolph (Lucretia Garfield) and began a family that included seven children (two died in infancy). Garfield also studied law and was ordained as a minister in the Disciples of Christ church, but he soon turned to politics. Ballou, ElizaEliza Ballou, illustration from The Life, Character and Public Services of Jas. A. Garfield (1880) by A.G. Riddle. The Life, Character and Public Services of Jas. A. Garfield by A. G. Riddle, 1883 Garfield, LucretiaLucretia GarfieldBrady-Handy Collection/Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. James A. Garfield with his family, colour lithograph.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (file no. LC-DIG-pga-01867) An advocate of free-soil principles (opposing the extension of slavery), he became a supporter of the newly organized Republican Party and in 1859 was elected to the Ohio legislature. During the Civil War he helped recruit the 42nd Ohio Volunteer Infantry and became its colonel. After commanding a brigade at the Battle of Shiloh (April 1862), he was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives, and, while waiting for Congress to begin its session, he served as chief of staff in the Army of the Cumberland, winning promotion to major general after distinguishing himself at the Battle of Chickamauga (September 1863). It was about that time that Garfield had an extramarital affair with a Lucia Calhoun in New York City. He later admitted the indiscretion and was forgiven by his wife. Historians believe that the many letters he had written to Calhoun, which are referred to in his diary, were retrieved by Garfield and destroyed. James A. Garfield, c. 1855–65. Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (file no. LC-DIG-cwpbh-00948) For nine terms, until 1880, Garfield represented Ohio’s 19th congressional district. As chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations, he became an expert on fiscal matters and advocated a high protective tariff, and, as a Radical Republican, he sought a firm policy of Reconstruction for the South. In 1880 the Ohio legislature elected him to the U.S. Senate. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Road to the presidency At the Republican presidential convention the same year in Chicago, the delegates were divided into three principal camps: the “Stalwarts” (conservatives led by powerful New York Sen. Roscoe Conkling), who backed former president Ulysses S. Grant; the “Half-Breed” (moderate) supporters of Maine Sen. James G. Blaine; and those committed to Secretary of the Treasury John Sherman. Tall, bearded, affable, and eloquent, Garfield steered fellow Ohioan Sherman’s campaign and impressed so many with his largely extemporaneous nominating speech that he, not the candidate, became the focus of attention. As the chairman of the Ohio delegation, Garfield also led a coalition of anti-Grant delegates who succeeded in rescinding the unit rule, by which a majority of delegates from a state could cast the state’s entire vote. This victory added to Garfield’s prominence and doomed Grant’s candidacy. Grant led all other candidates for 35 ballots but failed to command a majority. On the 36th ballot the nomination went to a dark horse, Garfield, who was still trying to remove his name from nomination as the bandwagon gathered speed. Republican National Convention, Chicago, 1880.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. His Democratic opponent in the November 1880 general election was Gen. Winfield Scott Hancock, like Garfield a Civil War veteran, so both could wrap themselves in the symbolic “bloody shirt” of the Union. But Garfield also capitalized on his rags-to-riches background, and, along with a campaign biography literally written by Horatio Alger, he reached back to his humble beginnings as a “canal boy” for the slogan “From the tow path to the White House.” (“No man ever started so low that accomplished so much, in all our history,” said former president Rutherford B. Hayes of Garfield. He was “the ideal self-made man.”) In an era when it was still considered unseemly for a candidate to court voters actively, Garfield, aided by Lucretia (who remained an important adviser), conducted the first “front porch” campaign, from his home in Mentor, Ohio, where reporters and voters came to hear him speak. Notwithstanding allegations of involvement in the Crédit Mobilier scandal, in which Garfield had received $329 from stock in the notorious company (a remuneration which Democrats characterized as a bribe and played up as a campaign issue by plastering walls, sidewalks, and placards with “329”), and a forged letter that supposedly revealed Garfield’s advocacy of unrestricted Chinese immigration, he defeated Hancock (as well as the third-party Greenback candidate), though he won the popular election by fewer than 10,000 votes. The vote in the electoral college was less close: 214 votes for Garfield, 155 for Hancock. Visitors arriving at the home of James A. Garfield in Mentor, Ohio; wood engraving, 1880.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (file no. LC-USZ62-112153) Campaign poster for James A. Garfield and Chester A. Arthur, 1880.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (file no. LC-USZC4-6109) James A. Garfield Quick Facts View Media Page born November 19, 1831 near Orange, Ohio died September 19, 1881 (aged 49) Elberon, Ohio title / office presidency of the United States of America, United States (1881-1881) House of Representatives, United States (1863-1881) political affiliation Republican Party Radical Republican role in American Civil War Battle of Shiloh Battle of Chickamauga Creek notable family members spouse Lucretia Garfield Load Next Page James A. Garfield Additional Information More About Additional Reading External Websites Spartacus Educational - Biography of James Garfield The White House - Biography of James Garfield Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. James A. Garfield - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) James A. Garfield - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!