https://www.britannica.com/biography/Winfield-Scott-Hancock
Winfield Scott Hancock | United States military officer | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Winfield Scott Hancock United States military officer Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Winfield Scott Hancock United States military officer Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Winfield Scott Hancock, (born Feb. 14, 1824, Montgomery County, Pa., U.S.—died Feb. 9, 1886, Governor’s Island, N.Y.), Union general during the American Civil War (1861–65), whose policies during Reconstruction military service in Louisiana and Texas so endeared him to the Democratic Party that he became the party’s presidential candidate in 1880. A West Point graduate (1844), he served with distinction in the Mexican War (1846–48). Hancock was appointed a brigadier general of volunteers on the outbreak of the Civil War and served in the Peninsular campaign of 1862. In May 1863 he was made head of the II Corps, Army of the Potomac, which he led for most of the remaining two years of the war. He served with distinction at the Battle of Gettysburg (July 1863) and participated in the drive on Richmond, Va., the following spring. As a major general after the war, he commanded (1866–68) various army departments, including the military division composed of Louisiana and Texas. Although great discretionary power had been conferred upon him, Hancock insisted on the maintenance of the civil authorities in their “natural and rightful dominion.” This stand enraged some Republicans, who were counting on military power to protect black and white Republicans in the South, but his policy won him the support of the Democrats, who nominated him for the presidency in 1880. After narrowly losing the election to the Republican candidate, James A. Garfield, he returned to military life. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: The Rutherford B. Hayes administration Winfield S. Hancock. Hancock had been a Federal general during the Civil War, but he had no political record and little familiarity with questions of public policy.… James A. Garfield: Road to the presidency Winfield Scott Hancock, like Garfield a Civil War veteran, so both could wrap themselves in the symbolic “bloody shirt” of the Union. But Garfield also capitalized on his rags-to-riches background, and, along with a campaign biography literally written by Horatio Alger, he reached back to… United States presidential election of 1880 Garfield defeated Democrat Winfield Scott Hancock. Among presidents who won the popular vote, Garfield’s margin of victory remains the narrowest in history.… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Winfield Scott Hancock Quick Facts View Media Page born February 14, 1824 Montgomery, Pennsylvania died February 9, 1886 (aged 61) Governors Island, New York political affiliation Democratic Party role in American Civil War Battle of Gettysburg Winfield Scott Hancock Additional Information More About External Websites National Park Service - Biography of Winfield Scott Hancock American Battlefield Trust - Biography of Winfield Scott Hancock Texas State Historical Association - Handbook of Texas - Biography of Winfield Scott Hancock HistoryNet - Biography of Winfield Scott Hancock Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Winfield Scott Hancock - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!