https://www.britannica.com/biography/James-B-Weaver
James B. Weaver | American politician | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 James B. Weaver American politician Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter James B. Weaver American politician Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Alternative Title: James Baird Weaver James B. Weaver, (born June 12, 1833, Dayton, Ohio, U.S.—died Feb. 6, 1912, Des Moines, Iowa), American politician who leaned toward agrarian radicalism; he twice ran unsuccessfully for the U.S. presidency, as the Greenback-Labor candidate (1880) and as the Populist candidate (1892). Admitted to the bar in 1856, Weaver practiced law in Bloomfield, Iowa, and entered politics, changing affiliation successively from Democrat to Free-Soiler to Republican. He served with distinction in the Civil War (1861–65), enlisting as a private in the Union army and rising through the ranks until he was mustered out with the rank of brevet brigadier general. After the war he antagonized Iowa Republican leaders by his reformist temperament, his Methodist-inspired Prohibitionism, criticism of the railroads, and advocacy of easy money. Deprived of the Republican nomination for Congress (1874) and for governor (1875), Weaver gradually moved into the Greenback-Labor Party, which advocated the continued wide circulation of paper money. As a Greenbacker he served six years in the U.S. House of Representatives (1879–81, 1885–89), though he was defeated for that office in 1882 as well as for the presidency in 1880. In the 1880s Weaver played a leading role in the evolution of the People’s Party (see Populist Movement), which had succeeded the Farmers’ Alliances as the main advocate of soft money after the Greenback-Labor Party had dissolved. He was the party’s natural choice for president in 1892, when his patriarchal appearance and commanding presence helped him win more than 1,000,000 popular and 22 electoral votes. In 1896 Weaver exerted his influence to give the Populist presidential nomination to William Jennings Bryan, the Democratic candidate. The Populist merger with the Democrats spelled the effective dissolution of the Populist Party and the waning of Weaver’s political career. He served as a small-town Iowa mayor and local historian in his later years. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Populist Movement Populist Movement, in U.S. history, politically oriented coalition of agrarian reformers in the Midwest and South that advocated a wide range of economic and political legislation in the late 19th century. Throughout the 1880s, local political action groups known as Farmers’ Alliances sprang up among Midwesterners and Southerners, who were discontented… United States: The Populists James B. Weaver of Iowa for president.… Grover Cleveland: Winning a second term …Harrison and Populist Party candidate James B. Weaver by 277 electoral votes to Harrison’s 145, making Cleveland the only president ever elected to discontinuous terms. (See primary source document: Second Inaugural Address.)… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. James B. Weaver Quick Facts View Media Page born June 12, 1833 Dayton, Ohio died February 6, 1912 (aged 78) Des Moines, Iowa political affiliation Republican Party role in Populist Movement Greenback movement James B. Weaver Additional Information More About External Websites Biographical Directory of the United States Congress - Biography of James Baird Weaver Spartacus Educational - Biography of James Baird Weaver Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!