https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1884
United States presidential election of 1884 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1884 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction The candidates The campaign Results of the 1884 election United States presidential election of 1884 United States government Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History United States presidential election of 1884, American presidential election held on Nov. 4, 1884, in which Democrat Grover Cleveland defeated Republican James G. Blaine. The election was marked by bitter mudslinging and scandalous accusations that overshadowed substantive issues such as civil service reform. American presidential election, 1884Results of the American presidential election, 1884 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes Grover Cleveland Democratic 219 4,874,986 James G. Blaine Republican 182 4,851,981 Benjamin F. Butler Greenback 175,096 John P. St. John Prohibition 147,482 Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001).Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The candidates The nominating conventions for both parties were held in Chicago (the Republican convention was in early June, and the Democratic convention was held a month later). In a third successive bid for the Republican presidential nomination, Blaine won on the fourth ballot, defeating the incumbent Republican president, Chester A. Arthur, who had succeeded to the presidency upon the death in 1881 of James A. Garfield. Illinois Sen. John A. Logan was chosen as his running mate uncontested. The Democratic convention turned to Grover Cleveland, the governor of New York, whose reputation contrasted sharply with that of Blaine, whose financial impropriety prompted the Republican Mugwump faction to turn away from their party. Cleveland won the Democratic nomination with ease, and the party chose as his running mate Thomas A. Hendricks, former governor of Indiana. Cleveland, GroverGrover Cleveland.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Blaine, James G.James G. Blaine.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (Digital File Number: cwpbh-03708) The campaign The candidates’ campaign tactics were decidedly different, with Blaine undertaking an extensive tour of the country and Cleveland making very few public appearances. Key to both campaigns was the issue of the tariff. Republicans, who relied on support from big businesses and were in favour of tariffs, clashed with Democrats, who believed tariff reform would threaten the welfare of farmers. The tariff issue, however, was soon preempted by vicious mudslinging from both sides. During the campaign Cleveland’s image as the clean alternative to the supposedly sullied Blaine suffered serious damage when Republicans charged that the Democratic candidate had fathered a child out of wedlock some 10 years earlier. As Republicans joyously chortled, "Ma, ma, where’s my pa?," Cleveland remained undaunted, and he instructed Democratic leaders to "tell the truth." The truth, as Cleveland admitted, was that he had had an affair with the child’s mother, Maria Halpin, and had agreed to provide financial support when she named him as the father, though he was uncertain whether the child was really his. Meanwhile, Democrats, trying to contrast Cleveland’s reputation with Blaine’s, chanted, "Blaine, Blaine, James G. Blaine, the continental liar from the state of Maine!" Late in the campaign, Blaine experienced an embarrassment of his own when a supporter at a rally in New York City described the Democrats as the party of "rum, Romanism, and rebellion"—a swipe at the city’s Irish Catholics, many of whom Blaine hoped to lure into his camp. Although Blaine was present when the fateful words were spoken, he did nothing to dissociate himself from the remark. Cleveland eked out a narrow victory in the popular vote, and in the electoral college the contest came down to the result in New York state, which Blaine lost to Cleveland by fewer than 1,200 votes. By winning 219 electoral votes to Blaine’s 182, Cleveland became the first Democrat to win the presidency since 1856 and the first in the post-Civil War era. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1880. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1888. Results of the 1884 election The results of the 1884 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1884 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001). Grover Cleveland Democratic 219 4,874,986 James G. Blaine Republican 182 4,851,981 Benjamin F. Butler Greenback 175,096 John P. Saint John Prohibition 147,482 This article was most recently revised and updated by Alison Eldridge, Digital Content Manager. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: The administrations of James A. Garfield and Chester A. Arthur >next presidential election was held, Arthur’s administration had won the respect of many who had viewed his accession to office with misgivings. It had not, however, gained him any strong following among the leaders of his party. The foremost candidate for the Republican nomination was… Grover Cleveland: Early life and career In the 1884 presidential election, the Democrats sought a candidate who would contrast sharply with Republican nominee James G. Blaine, a longtime Washington insider whose reputation for dishonesty and financial impropriety prompted the Republican Mugwump faction to bolt their party. Cleveland’s image was the opposite of Blaine’s,… Democratic Party Democratic Party, in the United States, one of the two major political parties, the other being the Republican Party. The Democratic Party has changed significantly during its more than two centuries of existence. During the 19th century the party supported or tolerated slavery, and it… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1884 Quick Facts date November 4, 1884 participants James G. Blaine Benjamin F. Butler Grover Cleveland Thomas A. Hendricks John A. Logan John Saint John related topics Democratic Party Prohibition Party Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1884 Additional Information More About External Websites Maps of World - U.S. Presidential Election 1884 History Central - Presidential Elections 1884 United States History - Election of 1884 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!