https://www.britannica.com/biography/James-G-Blaine
James G. Blaine | American politician | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 James G. Blaine American politician Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter James G. Blaine American politician Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Alternative Title: James Gillespie Blaine James G. Blaine, in full James Gillespie Blaine, (born Jan. 31, 1830, West Brownsville, Pa., U.S.—died Jan. 27, 1893, Washington, D.C.), a leading Republican politician and diplomat for 25 years (1868–93), who was particularly influential in launching the Pan-American Movement with Latin-American countries. Blaine graduated from Washington (now Washington and Jefferson) College in Washington, Pa., in 1847 and then taught school for the next six years. He moved to Augusta, Maine, in 1854 to become editor and part owner of the Kennebec Journal, a crusading Republican newspaper. In 1856 he attended the first national convention of the newly organized Republican Party. He served in the Maine state legislature from 1858 until his election to the U.S. House of Representatives in 1862. After the Civil War, he favoured a more moderate Reconstruction policy than the radicals of his party, although he was a strong advocate of black suffrage. In 1868 Blaine was elected speaker of the House, where his eloquence and leadership won him a devoted body of followers. He became known as the “Plumed Knight,” an appellation given him by Colonel Robert G. Ingersoll of Illinois, who offered Blaine’s name in nomination at the National Republican Convention of 1876. Blaine failed, however, to reply convincingly to charges that he had used his office for personal gain, and on the seventh ballot he lost the nomination to Rutherford B. Hayes. Immediately after the election Blaine was appointed to the Senate to fill a vacancy, and he soon won election to a full term. In 1880 he again lost a bid for the presidential nomination, and, on the election of James A. Garfield, he resigned his Senate seat to become secretary of state. In this office he envisaged a system of inter-American arbitration to relieve tensions and strengthen the Monroe Doctrine, and in 1881 he revived the idea—conceived earlier in the century—of calling an inter-American conference to consider an arbitration plan designed to prevent wars in the Western Hemisphere. This idea marked the beginning of the Pan-American Movement. The assassination of President Garfield (1881), however, brought Blaine’s resignation, and his Pan-American Conference was shelved by his successor. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Blaine finally won nomination for the presidency in 1884, only to lose by an extremely narrow margin to the Democratic candidate, Grover Cleveland, after an especially virulent campaign. By 1889 the Republicans were back in power, and Blaine again became secretary of state. As such, he assumed the chairmanship of the first Pan-American Conference, which had been authorized by Congress the previous year. The recommendation of separately negotiated reciprocity treaties was the only positive action of the conference. Blaine’s proposals for a customs union and arbitration were defeated. Blaine resigned as secretary of state in June 1892, partly as a result of failing health, and he was dead within seven months. This article was most recently revised and updated by Amy Tikkanen, Corrections Manager. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Grover Cleveland: Early life and career …contrast sharply with Republican nominee James G. Blaine, a longtime Washington insider whose reputation for dishonesty and financial impropriety prompted the Republican Mugwump faction to bolt their party. Cleveland’s image was the opposite of Blaine’s, and he seemed likely to draw Mugwump votes to the Democratic ticket. As a result,… United States presidential election of 1876: The candidates …front-runner for their nomination was James G. Blaine of Maine, the speaker of the House of Representatives. Republican reformers, however, hoped to thwart his nomination. Blaine led after the first ballot but without enough votes to secure the nomination. Among the challengers to Blaine were Roscoe Conkling, a senator from… Benjamin Harrison: Presidency His secretary of state, James G. Blaine, presided over the First International Conference of American States, held in Washington, D.C. (1889–90), which established the International Union of American Republics (later called the Pan-American Union) for the exchange of cultural and scientific information. In addition, Blaine successfully resisted pressure from… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. James G. Blaine Quick Facts View Media Page born January 31, 1830 West Brownsville, Pennsylvania died January 27, 1893 (aged 62) Washington, D.C., United States title / office United States Senate, United States (1876-1881) house of representatives, United States (1863-1876) political affiliation Republican Party role in Bering Sea Dispute First International Conference of American States James G. Blaine Additional Information More About Additional Reading External Websites Spartacus Educational - Biography of James Blaine U.S. Department of State - Office of the Historian - Biography of James Gillespie Blaine Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. James Gillespie Blaine - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!