https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1888
United States presidential election of 1888 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1888 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction Tariff reform tensions The election Results of the 1888 election United States presidential election of 1888 United States government Written By: Richard Pallardy See Article History United States presidential election of 1888, American presidential election held on Nov. 6, 1888, in which Republican Benjamin Harrison defeated Democratic incumbent Grover Cleveland, winning in the electoral college 233–168 despite losing the popular vote. It was the second time in American history (1876 being the first) that a presidential candidate had won a majority of the electoral vote while losing the popular vote—a circumstance that would not happen again until the election of 2000. American presidential election, 1888Results of the American presidential election, 1888 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes Benjamin Harrison Republican 233 5,439,853 Grover Cleveland Democratic 168 5,540,309 Clinton B. Fisk Prohibition 249,819 Anson J. Streeter Union Labor 146,602 Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001).Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Tariff reform tensions The defining issue of the 1888 presidential campaign was effectively set by Grover Cleveland in his State of the Union address the previous year. Atypically, he devoted the entire speech to one issue: tariff reform. Cleveland advocated strongly for a reduction in the protective tariff, which compelled manufacturers to charge consumers more to make up the cost of importing materials. This position stood in stark contrast to the Republican protectionist position, which called for the tariff to be increased, thereby driving up the cost of imported goods and pushing consumers toward domestically produced ones. Harrison, BenjaminBenjamin Harrison, photograph by George Prince, 1888.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. At the Democratic convention in June, Cleveland was nominated for another term with Ohio Sen. Allen G. Thurman filling the vice presidential slot on the ticket. (Thomas A. Hendricks, Cleveland’s first vice president, had died during the first year of his term, and the Constitution at the time did not allow for a replacement.) Later that month, the Republicans held their convention, initially nominating James G. Blaine, who had served as secretary of state under James Garfield and had run against Cleveland in 1884. When Blaine declined, several other contenders emerged, among them New York railroad maven Chauncey Depew and Ohio Sen. John Sherman. However, Depew dropped out at the behest of New York Republican boss Thomas C. Platt, who preferred Benjamin Harrison, a Civil War brigadier general and grandson of William Henry Harrison, ninth president of the United States. The added weight of Blaine’s endorsement sealed Harrison’s nomination. New York banker Levi Morton was nominated as his running mate. Several smaller parties, including the Prohibition Party and the suffragist Equal Rights Party, also put forth candidates. The election Keeping with tradition, neither presidential candidate actively campaigned for the presidency. (Harrison, however, did accept delegations at his Indianapolis home.) The task of generating support fell to a range of surrogates, of which the Republicans could afford far more because of aggressive fundraising. Morton, the vice presidential candidate, toured widely, despite his advanced age and declining health. The red kerchief he constantly used to wipe his brow became a symbol of the campaign; supporters waved similar kerchiefs at his rallies. Blaine and Sherman continued to rouse anti-free-trade sentiment, which was further inflamed by a Republican who, posing as a British immigrant, solicited direction on whom to vote for from the British ambassador. The ambassador’s reply, which expressed the British government’s preference for Cleveland, was published and used as evidence of Cleveland’s free-trade sympathies. (The United Kingdom strongly advocated free trade.) The Democrats in turn published a letter from the Republican National Committee that exhorted the use of “floaters,” or paid nonresident voters, in Indiana; the Republicans decried it as a fraud. (Despite their denials, however, the Republicans did in fact deploy hordes of paid “floaters” in Indiana, swinging that state, which had gone to Cleveland in the previous election, in favour of Harrison.) Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Come election day, Cleveland garnered more than 100,000 more votes than Harrison but ultimately lost the election in the electoral college. In addition to capturing Indiana, Harrison also prevailed in New York and Ohio, the home states of Cleveland and Thurman, respectively, and fringe parties helped to siphon votes from Cleveland in other states. Thus, when the electoral votes were tallied, Harrison won comfortably, with 233 electoral votes to Cleveland’s 168. Four years later, Cleveland would defeat Harrison to become the first president to serve nonconsecutive terms in office. For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1884. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1892.Richard Pallardy Results of the 1888 election The results of the 1888 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1888 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001). Benjamin Harrison Republican 233 5,439,853 Grover Cleveland Democratic 168 5,540,309 Clinton B. Fisk Prohibition 249,819 Anson J. Streeter Union Labor 146,602 Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: The election of 1888 …the central issue in the presidential campaign of 1888. The Democrats renominated Cleveland, although it was thought that he had endangered his chances of reelection by his outspoken advocacy of tariff reduction. The Republicans had their usual difficulty in selecting a candidate. Blaine refused to enter the race, and no… Grover Cleveland: Presidency Cleveland ran for reelection in 1888. The major issue of the presidential campaign was the protective tariff. Cleveland opposed the high tariff, calling it unnecessary taxation imposed upon American consumers, while Republican candidate Benjamin Harrison defended protectionism. On election day, Cleveland won about 100,000 more popular votes than Harrison, evidence… Republican Party Republican Party, in the United States, one of the two major political parties, the other being the Democratic Party. During the 19th century the Republican Party stood against the extension of slavery to the country’s new territories and, ultimately, for slavery’s complete abolition. During the… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1888 Quick Facts date November 6, 1888 participants Grover Cleveland Benjamin Harrison Levi Morton Clinton B. Fisk Allen G. Thurman related topics Democratic Party Prohibition Party Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1888 Additional Information More About External Websites United States History - Election of 1888 Maps of World - U.S. Presidential Election 1888 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!