https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1892
United States presidential election of 1892 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1892 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction Candidates and issues Campaign and election Results of the 1892 election United States presidential election of 1892 United States government Written By: John M. Cunningham See Article History United States presidential election of 1892, American presidential election, held on November 8, 1892, in which Democrat Grover Cleveland defeated Republican incumbent Benjamin Harrison . In winning, Cleveland became the first former president to be restored to the office. American presidential election, 1892Results of the American presidential election, 1892 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes Grover Cleveland Democratic 277 5,556,918 Benjamin Harrison Republican 145 5,176,108 James B. Weaver People's (Populist) 22 1,027,329 John Bidwell Prohibition 270,770 Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001).Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Candidates and issues Harrison’s first term as president provoked widespread discontent. Despite the narrowness of his victory in 1888, the Republican Congress promptly pushed through a series of partisan measures, and resulting legislation such as the McKinley Tariff Act (1890)—which substantially raised duties on most imports—was met with frustrated charges that Harrison was too closely aligned with the country’s wealthy elite. Another congressional act, under which millions of dollars of surplus funds were allocated to pensions for Civil War veterans, was seen as wasteful. By 1892 the Democrats had won back the House of Representatives, and, with dwindling support from Republican political bosses, Harrison’s political future was in doubt. In early June, shortly before the opening of the Republican National Convention in Minneapolis, Minnesota, past presidential candidate James G. Blaine resigned as Harrison’s secretary of state in the hopes of securing the party’s nomination once again. Harrison, however, managed to stave off Blaine’s challenge, as well as an unexpected groundswell of support for former Ohio representative William McKinley , in the first round of balloting. Delegates replaced Vice Pres. Levi Morton on the ticket with journalist Whitelaw Reid , who had recently served as U.S. ambassador to France. Harrison, BenjaminBenjamin Harrison, photograph by George Prince, 1888.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Whitelaw ReidCourtesy of the Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Since leaving the White House in 1889, Cleveland had worked for a New York City law firm. His decision to run for president for a third time was motivated in part by his opposition to the growing Free Silver Movement , which sought to stimulate inflation and thereby alleviate the debts of farmers in the West through the unlimited coinage of silver. (The Sherman Silver Purchase Act of 1890, the passage of which had been urged by several Western states, had already required the government to purchase 4.5 million ounces of silver each month.) While he personally backed the gold standard, Cleveland mainly desired that the Democratic Party resist the sway of free-silver advocates. With few other promising candidates and the benefit of his prominent stature, he found considerable support at the party’s convention in Chicago in late June, easily winning the nomination over David B. Hill, who had succeeded him as governor of New York, and Iowa Gov. Horace Boies. The Democrats’ vice presidential candidate was Adlai Stevenson , a former congressman from Illinois and an assistant postmaster general during Cleveland’s first term. Cleveland, GroverGrover Cleveland.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Adlai Stevenson.© Bettmann/Corbis With the platforms of both major parties endorsing a moderate approach to bimetallism, the Populist Party , which had arisen from an alliance of agrarian reformers, emerged for some voters as an appealing alternative. In addition to demanding free and unlimited silver, the party championed a host of other measures designed to strengthen political democracy and to give farmers economic parity with business and industry. James B. Weaver , a former presidential candidate for the Greenback-Labor Party, won the Populist nomination in Omaha, Nebraska, in early July. Weaver, James B.James B. WeaverCourtesy of the Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Campaign and election Neither Harrison nor Cleveland campaigned much, in part out of respect for Harrison’s wife, who was ill for much of the year and died two weeks before the election. As the Democrats’ primary stump speaker, Stevenson notably emphasized the party’s opposition to the Federal Elections Bill (1890)—a measure that aimed to protect voting rights for African Americans by allowing the federal government to monitor state and local elections—in an attempt to attract support from white Southerners who might otherwise have been drawn to the Populists. In addition, the race was undoubtedly affected by violent labour strikes in July at silver mines in Coeur d’Alene, Idaho, and at Andrew Carnegie’s steelworks in Homestead, Pennsylvania. (See Coeur d’Alene riots and Homestead Strike.) The incidents, which had been triggered by wage cuts for workers, were viewed by many as evidence that Harrison’s high-tariff policy was unfriendly to labour. Homestead strike, July 1892State militia entering Homestead, Pa., to put down the strike of July 1892.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. In the end, Cleveland won the popular vote by some 380,000 votes and managed 277 electoral votes to Harrison’s 145—the most decisive win in a presidential contest in two decades. Weaver, for his part, garnered 22 electoral votes, all from states west of the Mississippi River. Cleveland’s victory proved to be somewhat Pyrrhic, though, as the country soon plunged into an economic depression that he struggled to overcome. For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1888. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1896. John M. Cunningham Results of the 1892 election The results of the 1892 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1892 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001). Grover Cleveland Democratic 277 5,556,918 Benjamin Harrison Republican 145 5,176,108 James B. Weaver People's (Populist) 22 1,027,329 John Bidwell Prohibition 270,770 Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: The election of 1892 …1888: Harrison and Cleveland (see U.S. presidential election of 1892. The unpopularity of the McKinley tariff gave Cleveland an advantage, as did the discontent in the West, which was directed largely against the Republican Party. From the beginning of the campaign it appeared probable that the Democrats would be successful,… Grover Cleveland: Winning a second term …to a Democratic victory in 1892 seemed clear. Cleveland won his party’s nomination for the third consecutive time and then soundly defeated Harrison and Populist Party candidate James B. Weaver by 277 electoral votes to Harrison’s 145, making Cleveland the only president ever elected to discontinuous terms. (See primary source… Democratic Party Democratic Party, in the United States, one of the two major political parties, the other being the Republican Party. The Democratic Party has changed significantly during its more than two centuries of existence. During the 19th century the party supported or tolerated slavery, and it… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1892 Quick Facts date November 8, 1892 participants John Bidwell Grover Cleveland Benjamin Harrison Whitelaw Reid Adlai Stevenson James B. Weaver related topics Democratic Party Prohibition Party Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1892 Additional Information More About External Websites United States History - Election of 1892 Maps of World - U.S. Presidential Election 1892 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!