https://www.britannica.com/biography/John-Bidwell
John Bidwell | American politician | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 John Bidwell American politician Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter John Bidwell American politician Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Mar 31, 2020 See Article History John Bidwell, (born Aug. 5, 1819, Chautauqua County, N.Y., U.S.—died April 4, 1900, near Sacramento, Calif.), California civic and political leader who ran unsuccessfully for U.S. president in 1892 as the candidate of the Prohibition Party. The Bidwell family moved from New York to Pennsylvania in 1829 and to Ohio in 1831. In 1836 Bidwell walked 300 miles from the family home in Ashtabula to enroll at Kingsville Academy—of which he was made principal the following year at the age of 17. After returning to Ashtabula to accept a teaching position, Bidwell moved west, settling temporarily in Missouri before joining the first emigrant group to travel by wagon train from the town of Independence to California. On arrival there, Bidwell went to work at Sutter’s Fort and, after a few years, became a naturalized Mexican citizen. Reluctant to join the Bear Flag revolt of Americans in California against Mexico, he nonetheless helped draw up the Bear Flag Republic’s resolution of independence in July 1846. Bidwell fought in the Mexican War, marching to Monterey (California) with Colonel John C. Frémont, serving as civil magistrate in Los Angeles, and finally assisting Commodore Robert F. Stockton in the recapture of Los Angeles in 1847. At the end of the war he returned to Sutter’s Fort and became the first to find gold on the Feather River. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today With his newly discovered wealth Bidwell purchased a 22,000-acre ranch, Rancho Chico, north of Sacramento. There he became the state’s leading agriculturalist while simultaneously taking a prominent role in California politics. He served in the state senate and was a delegate to several Democratic Party national conventions. With the advent of the Civil War, Bidwell, a staunch Unionist, became a supporter of Lincoln. Elected to the House of Representatives in 1864, Bidwell declined renomination in order to run for governor of California on the Republican ticket in 1867; his bid was unsuccessful, as were his two others, one in 1875 as an anti-monopolist independent and another in 1890 as a candidate of the Prohibition Party, which nominated him for president in 1892. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Chico …was founded in 1860 by John Bidwell, a state congressman and horticulturist, and developed as an agricultural-processing centre, especially for almonds, rice, and fruit. Manufacturing initially consisted of a match factory established in 1904, and after World War II there was planned diversified industrial expansion. Bidwell Mansion State Historic Park… Bear Flag Revolt Bear Flag Revolt, (June–July 1846), short-lived independence rebellion precipitated by American settlers in California’s Sacramento Valley against Mexican authorities. In 1846 approximately 500 Americans were living in California, compared with between 8,000 and 12,000 Mexicans. Nonetheless, early in June a group of about a dozen Americans seized a large herd… Prohibition Party Prohibition Party, oldest minor U.S. political party still in existence. It was founded in 1869 to campaign for legislation to prohibit the manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors, and from time to time has nominated candidates for state and local office in nearly every state of the Union. Rural and… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. John Bidwell Quick Facts born August 5, 1819 Chautauqua, New York died April 4, 1900 (aged 80) Sacramento, California title / office house of representatives, United States (1864-1867) political affiliation Democratic Party Prohibition Party John Bidwell Additional Information More About External Websites Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. John Bidwell - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) John Bidwell - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!