https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1896
United States presidential election of 1896 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1896 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction The nominations The campaign Results of the 1896 election United States presidential election of 1896 United States government Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History United States presidential election of 1896, American presidential election held on November 3, 1896, in which Republican William McKinley defeated Democrat-Populist William Jennings Bryan. American presidential election, 1896Results of the American presidential election, 1896 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes 1Includes a variety of joint tickets with People's Party electors committed to Bryan. William McKinley Republican 271 7,104,779 William Jennings Bryan Democratic1 176 6,502,925 John M. Palmer National Democratic 133,435 Joshua Levering Prohibition 125,072 Charles H. Matchett Socialist Labor 36,356 Charles E. Bentley Nationalist Prohibition 19,363 Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001).Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The nominations The presidential campaign of 1896 was one of the most exciting in American history. The central issue was the country’s money supply. An economic depression had begun in 1893, and public opinion—and even the Democratic Party—was split between those who favoured the gold standard and those who favoured free silver, a type of currency inflation, to help alleviate the depression. Most Republicans, as well as Democratic supporters of Pres. Grover Cleveland, were in favour of the gold standard. Southern and western Democrats and Populists (also known as the People’s Party)—many of them farmers who were suffering financially—vied for free silver, which ultimately helped bring those two parties together. In June at the Republican national convention in St. Louis, Missouri, former Ohio congressman and governor William McKinley, who was popular in his party for his moderate views on gold and silver, easily won the Republican presidential nomination. Garret A. Hobart of New Jersey was chosen as his running mate after Thomas Reed, who had vied for the presidential ticket, rejected the vice presidential nomination. McKinley, WilliamWilliam McKinley.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (reproduction no. LC-USZ62-96358) Hear William Jennings Bryan deliver his Cross of Gold speech at the Democratic National ConventionWilliam Jennings Bryan's “Cross of Gold” speech, given at the Democratic National Convention, Chicago, July 8, 1896. Public Domain videoSee all videos for this article At their convention in Chicago the following month, the Democrats chose magnetic orator and former Nebraska congressman William Jennings Bryan. Although he was only 36 years of age, Bryan’s famous “Cross of Gold” speech (July 8), given in closing debate on the party platform and in favour of including a plank endorsing free silver, so electrified the convention that he was nominated for president, winning on the fifth ballot. His solution for the depressed economy was an “easy money” policy based on the unlimited coinage of silver at a ratio to gold of 16 to 1. On that platform he also received the nominations of the Populist and National Silver parties. Arthur Sewall, an executive from Maine, was chosen as the Democrats’ vice presidential candidate. The Populists, trying to preserve their party as separate from the Democrats, nominated Thomas E. Watson as their vice presidential candidate. Bryan, William JenningsWilliam Jennings Bryan, c. 1907.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (Digital File Number: cph 3b41852) Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today The campaign McKinley ran on a Republican platform emphasizing maintenance of the gold standard, while his opponent called for the bimetallic standard of gold and silver. Bryan campaigned vigorously, traveling thousands of miles and delivering hundreds of speeches in support of an inflated currency that would help poor farmers and other debtors. McKinley remained at home in Canton, Ohio, greeting visiting delegations of Republicans at his front porch and giving carefully prepared speeches promoting the benefits of a gold-backed currency. Prominent Republican industrialist Mark Hanna tapped big businesses for enormous campaign contributions while directing a network of Republican speakers who portrayed Bryan as a dangerous radical and McKinley as “the advance agent of prosperity.” Although Bryan rallied a devoted voter base, sweeping the South and most of the mountain West, McKinley won the election decisively, carrying the North and Pacific West and becoming the first president to achieve a popular majority since 1872. In the electoral college, McKinley defeated Bryan 271 to 176. Campaign poster from the 1896 U.S. presidential election with the text of William Jennings Bryan's “Cross of Gold” speech, colour lithograph.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (digital file no. 3g02112u) For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1892. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1900. Results of the 1896 election The results of the 1896 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1896 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes *Includes a variety of joint tickets with People's Party electors committed to Bryan. Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001). William McKinley Republican 271 7,104,779 William Jennings Bryan Democratic* 176 6,502,925 John M. Palmer National Democratic 133,435 Joshua Levering Prohibition 125,072 Charles H. Matchett Socialist Labor 36,356 Charles E. Bentley Nationalist Prohibition 19,363 This article was most recently revised and updated by Alison Eldridge, Digital Content Manager. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: Cleveland’s second term …parties looked forward to the election of 1896.… Grover Cleveland: Winning a second term …the tumultuous Democratic convention in 1896, the party was divided between supporters of Cleveland and the gold standard and those who wanted a bimetallic standard of gold and silver designed to expand the nation’s money supply. When William Jennings Bryan delivered his impassioned Cross of Gold speech, the… William McKinley: Presidency The presidential campaign of 1896 was one of the most exciting in American history. The central issue was the nation’s money supply. McKinley ran on a Republican platform emphasizing maintenance of the gold standard, while his opponent—William Jennings Bryan, candidate of both the Democratic and Populist… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1896 Quick Facts date November 3, 1896 participants William Jennings Bryan Garret A. Hobart William McKinley Thomas E. Watson John M. Palmer related topics Democratic Party Prohibition Party Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1896 Additional Information More About External Websites United States History - Election of 1896 Maps of World - U.S. Presidential Election 1896 History Central - Presidential Elections 1896 UShistory.org - The Election of 1896 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!