https://www.britannica.com/biography/William-Jennings-Bryan
William Jennings Bryan | Biography, Cross of Gold, & Scopes Trial | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 William Jennings Bryan American politician Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter William Jennings Bryan American politician Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Mar 15, 2020 See Article History William Jennings Bryan, (born March 19, 1860, Salem, Illinois, U.S.—died July 26, 1925, Dayton, Tennessee), Democratic and Populist leader and a magnetic orator who ran unsuccessfully three times for the U.S. presidency (1896, 1900, and 1908). His enemies regarded him as an ambitious demagogue, but his supporters viewed him as a champion of liberal causes. He was influential in the eventual adoption of such reforms as popular election of senators, income tax, creation of a Department of Labor, Prohibition, and woman suffrage. Throughout his career, his Midwestern roots clearly identified him with agrarian interests, in opposition to those of the urban East. Bryan was reared in Illinois. He practiced law in Jacksonville (1883–87) before moving to Lincoln, Nebraska, where he was elected to the U.S. Congress in 1890. Renowned as a gifted debater, he opposed high tariffs and came to be considered the national leader of the Free Silver Movement (bimetallism) as opposed to the “hard money” policy of the Eastern bankers and industrialists, who favoured the gold standard. Campaign poster from the 1896 U.S. presidential election with the text of William Jennings Bryan's “Cross of Gold” speech, colour lithograph.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (digital file no. 3g02112u) Hear William Jennings Bryan deliver his Cross of Gold speech at the Democratic National ConventionWilliam Jennings Bryan's “Cross of Gold” speech, given at the Democratic National Convention, Chicago, July 8, 1896. Public Domain videoSee all videos for this article Defeated for the U.S. Senate in 1894, he spent the next two years as editor of the Omaha World-Herald and as a popular public lecturer. The climax of Bryan’s career was undoubtedly the 1896 presidential campaign. At the Democratic convention in Chicago, his famous “Cross of Gold” speech (July 8) won him the nomination at the age of 36. American presidential election, 1896Results of the American presidential election, 1896Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001).Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. American presidential election, 1900Results of the American presidential election, 1900Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001).Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. American presidential election, 1908Results of the American presidential election, 1908Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001).Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Bryan, William Jennings: 1908 presidential campaignWilliam Jennings Bryan campaigning for the U.S. presidency, 1908.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. If they dare to come out in the open field and defend the gold standard as a good thing, we shall fight them to the uttermost, having behind us the producing masses of the nation and the world. Having behind us the commercial interests and the laboring interests and all the toiling masses, we shall answer their demands for a gold standard by saying to them, you shall not press down upon the brow of labor this crown of thorns. You shall not crucify mankind upon a cross of gold. His solution for the depressed economy after the panic of 1893 was an “easy money” policy based on the unlimited coinage of silver at a ratio to gold of 16 to 1. On that platform he also received the nominations of the Populist and National Silver parties. In the ensuing campaign, he traveled more than 18,000 miles (29,000 km) through 27 states and attracted a large and enthusiastic following, but the well-financed Republican machine won 271 electoral votes for William McKinley to Bryan’s 176. Bryan lost to McKinley again in 1900 and to William Howard Taft in 1908. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today In recognition of his role in securing the Democratic nomination for Woodrow Wilson in 1912, Bryan was appointed secretary of state the following year. Despite his diplomatic inexperience, he made a distinctive contribution to world law by espousing arbitration to prevent war. Bryan convinced 31 nations to agree in principle to his proposal of new treaties that would provide a “cooling-off” period of one year during which a question in dispute could be studied by an international commission. In the meantime, World War I broke out. An avowed pacifist, Bryan finally resigned over Wilson’s second note to Germany (June 8, 1915) protesting the sinking of the Lusitania. Nonetheless, he urged loyal support of the war when it was finally declared. Bryan, William JenningsWilliam Jennings Bryan, c. 1907.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (Digital File Number: cph 3b41852) The concluding episode of his life was the famous Scopes trial in July 1925. A firm believer in a literal interpretation of the Bible, Bryan went to Dayton, Tennessee, to assist in the prosecution of a schoolteacher accused of teaching Darwinism, or the theory of the evolutionary origin of man, rather than the doctrine of divine creation. With Clarence Darrow as chief defense counsel, the trial attracted worldwide attention as a dramatic duel between fundamentalism and modernism. John T. Scopes was found guilty and fined (later overruled), but the excesses and passions of the court battle took their toll: six days after the trial, Bryan died in his sleep. Bryan, William JenningsWilliam Jennings Bryan.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica This article was most recently revised and updated by John P. Rafferty, Editor. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: Cleveland’s second term …silver and agrarian interests by William Jennings Bryan, which won him not only a prolonged ovation but also his party’s presidential nomination. Bryan was a former congressman from Nebraska, and at 36 he was the youngest man ever to be the nominee for president of a major party. By experience… evolution: Religious criticism and acceptance …spokesman for the antievolutionists was William Jennings Bryan, three times the unsuccessful Democratic candidate for the U.S. presidency, who said in 1922, “We will drive Darwinism from our schools.” In 1925 Bryan took part in the prosecution (see Scopes Trial) of John T. Scopes, a high-school teacher in Dayton, Tennessee,… Christian fundamentalism: The late 19th to the mid-20th century …foremost figures of that decade, William Jennings Bryan (1860–1925), a Presbyterian fundamentalist and three-time Democratic presidential candidate, and Clarence Darrow (1857–1938), a defense counsel in notable criminal trials, served as the assistant prosecuting attorney and the lead defense attorney, respectively (see Scopes Trial). Scopes was found guilty and… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. William Jennings Bryan Quick Facts View Media Page born March 19, 1860 Salem, Illinois died July 26, 1925 (aged 65) Dayton, Tennessee title / office secretary of state, United States (1913-1915) house of representatives, United States (1891-1895) political affiliation Democratic Party role in Scopes Trial Free Silver Movement “Cross of Gold” speech William Jennings Bryan Additional Information More About Additional Reading External Websites U.S. Department of State - Office of the Historian - Biography of William Jennings Bryan Architect of the Capitol - Biography of William Jennings Bryan Firstworldwar.com - Biography of William Jennings Bryan Spartacus Educational - Biography of William Jennings Bryan Public Broadcasting Service - Biography of William Jennings Bryan America's Story from America's Library - Biography of William Jennings Bryan Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. William Jennings Bryan - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!