https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1900
United States presidential election of 1900 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1900 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction A question of imperialism The campaign and the election Results of the 1900 election United States presidential election of 1900 United States government Written By: Richard Pallardy See Article History United States presidential election of 1900, American presidential election held on November 6, 1900, in which Republican incumbent Pres. William McKinley defeated Democrat William Jennings Bryan, winning 292 electoral votes to Bryan’s 155. American presidential election, 1900Results of the American presidential election, 1900 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes 1Includes a variety of joint tickets with People's Party electors committed to Bryan. William McKinley Republican 292 7,207,923 William Jennings Bryan Democratic1 155 6,358,133 John G. Woolley Prohibition 209,004 Eugene V. Debs Socialist 86,935 Wharton Barker People's (Populist) 50,340 Joseph F. Malloney Socialist Labor 40,900 Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001).Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. A question of imperialism In March 1898, two years into William McKinley’s first term as president, he gave Spain—which was in the midst of a brutal campaign of repression in Cuba—an ultimatum. Spain agreed to most of McKinley’s demands, including the cessation of hostilities against Cubans, but balked at giving up its last major New World colony. On April 25 Congress passed a formal declaration of war in the interest of securing Cuban independence. In the brief Spanish-American War—“a splendid little war,” in the words of Secretary of State John Hay—the United States easily defeated Spanish forces in the Philippines, Cuba, and Puerto Rico. The subsequent Treaty of Paris, signed in December 1898 and ratified by the Senate in February 1899, ceded Puerto Rico, Guam, and the Philippines to the United States; Cuba became independent. McKinley, WilliamWilliam McKinley (holding broadsheet) with Vice Pres. Theodore Roosevelt in a campaign poster for presidential reelection in 1900.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The conflict proved to be the defining issue of the election. McKinley—who was renominated by the Republicans at their national convention in Philadelphia in June 1900—continued to emphasize an expansionist foreign policy, arguing that the anti-American rebellion occurring in the Philippines had to be quelled and that American dominion there had to be “supreme.” He employed typical empire-building logic in justifying continued military intervention in the Philippine archipelago, claiming that the United States had a moral and religious obligation to “civilize and Christianize” its residents. His position was enhanced by the selection as his running mate of then New York governor Theodore Roosevelt, who won all but one vote on the first ballot. (Garret Hobart, vice president during McKinley’s first term, had died in office the previous year.) Roosevelt had made his name during the war by leading a charge of Rough Riders that took Kettle Hill (frequently referred to as San Juan Hill, which was nearby) in Cuba; he had returned home a national hero. His rise to the nomination was assisted by New York’s political bosses, who were unhappy with his gubernatorial reform efforts—particularly in regard to patronage—and sought to rid themselves of his meddlesome influence. McKinley, William; Roosevelt, TheodoreCampaign propaganda poster showing Republican presidential incumbent William McKinley and his vice presidential candidate, Theodore Roosevelt, 1900.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. McKinley, William; Roosevelt, TheodoreCampaign image of presidential incumbent William McKinley and his vice presidential candidate Theodore Roosevelt, 1900.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. William Jennings Bryan, McKinley’s Democratic opponent in 1896, was again nominated at the party’s convention in July in Kansas City, Missouri. Adlai Stevenson, who had served as vice president to Grover Cleveland, was selected as his running mate. The Democrats vehemently decried the Republican pursuit of empire and resurrected the contentious issue of freely coining silver at a 16:1 ratio to gold (at Bryan’s behest). Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today The campaign and the election Ohio industrialist Mark Hanna, who had run McKinley’s campaign and filled his coffers during his first presidential bid in 1896 and whom McKinley had appointed to a vacant Senate seat in 1897, again stumped for the incumbent. Also actively campaigning was Roosevelt, who proved himself to be a powerful orator and formidable debater as he traveled throughout the country. The two men were the primary faces of the Republican ticket; McKinley absented himself from campaigning. In addition to defending and exhorting the policy of expansionism, the Republicans called for the maintenance of the Dingley Tariff, instituted under McKinley in 1897; it was the highest protective tariff instituted in the United States up to that point. They cited the relative prosperity of the previous four years, using the campaign slogan “Four more years of the full dinner pail.” In a reversal of their previous position, the Republicans, though still in favour of a canal through the Central American isthmus, pointedly declined to specify that it should cut through Nicaragua. They instead favoured a Panamanian route, a position influenced by large donations from the New Panama Canal Company. (The Democrats were left with little choice but to continue in favour of the Nicaraguan route.) The platform also included a relatively tepid condemnation of efforts by Southern states to stonewall the enfranchisement of black voters established by the Fifteenth Amendment. Though Bryan campaigned feverishly, delivering over 600 speeches and visiting over half of the 45 states, he floundered in his efforts to combat imperialist sentiment. His calls for the independence of the Philippines were unpopular; many saw the country as being in a position of moral custodianship of the newly acquired territories. When Bryan shifted to the issue of trusts, Republicans, also officially antitrust, merely flipped the issue back to him, citing Democrat Cleveland’s poor record on the issue. In the end, McKinley prevailed, taking 51.7 percent of the popular vote and capturing 292 votes in the electoral college. Bryan captured 45.5 percent of the popular vote and garnered only 155 electoral votes. Candidates from smaller parties, including the Socialists and the Prohibition Party, had little effect on the race. For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1896. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1904.Richard Pallardy Results of the 1900 election The results of the 1900 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1900 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes *Includes a variety of joint tickets with People's Party electors committed to Bryan. Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001). William McKinley Republican 292 7,207,923 William Jennings Bryan Democratic* 155 6,358,133 John G. Woolley Prohibition 209,004 Eugene V. Debs Socialist 86,935 Wharton Barker People's (Populist) 50,340 Joseph F. Malloney Socialist Labor 40,900 Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Eugene V. Debs …the party’s presidential candidate in 1900 but received only 96,000 votes, a total he raised to 400,000 in 1904. In 1905 he helped found the Industrial Workers of the World, but he soon withdrew from the group because of its radicalism.… Republican Party Republican Party, in the United States, one of the two major political parties, the other being the Democratic Party. During the 19th century the Republican Party stood against the extension of slavery to the country’s new territories and, ultimately, for slavery’s complete abolition. During the… William McKinley William McKinley, 25th president of the United States (1897–1901). Under McKinley’s leadership, the United States went to war against Spain in 1898 and thereby acquired a global empire, which included Puerto Rico, Guam, and the… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1900 Quick Facts date November 6, 1900 participants William Jennings Bryan Eugene V. Debs William McKinley Theodore Roosevelt Adlai Stevenson related topics Democratic Party Prohibition Party Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1900 Additional Information More About External Websites United States History - Election of 1900 Maps of World - U.S. Presidential Election 1900 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!