https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1904
United States presidential election of 1904 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1904 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction The candidates The campaign and election Results of the 1904 election United States presidential election of 1904 United States government Written By: John M. Cunningham See Article History United States presidential election of 1904, American presidential election, held on November 8, 1904, in which Republican incumbent Pres. Theodore Roosevelt soundly defeated Democrat Alton B. Parker . Roosevelt’s win marked the first time that a president not originally elected to the office succeeded in retaining the presidency. American presidential election, 1904Results of the American presidential election, 1904 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes Theodore Roosevelt Republican 336 7,623,486 Alton B. Parker Democratic 140 5,077,911 Eugene V. Debs Socialist 402,489 Silas C. Swallow Prohibition 258,596 Thomas E. Watson People's (Populist) 114,051 Charles H. Corregan Socialist Labor 33,156 Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001).Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The candidates Roosevelt began preparing for the election not long after assuming the presidency in 1901 upon Pres. William McKinley’s assassination. Roosevelt’s dynamic personality and his vigorous pursuit of a raft of policy goals, such as the expansion of the national park system and the strengthening of American influence abroad, during his initial years in office already seemed to ensure him a broad base of support. However, he also engaged in backdoor politicking, notably seeking a public endorsement from a potential rival, Ohio Sen. Mark Hanna. Roosevelt’s inability to extract an unambiguous statement of support was ultimately rendered moot by Hanna’s death in February 1904. The path was thus cleared for Roosevelt’s nomination, and the delegates of the Republican National Convention, meeting in Chicago in June, unanimously chose him as their presidential candidate. As the vice presidency had been vacant since Roosevelt took office, Indiana Sen. Charles Fairbanks —whose conservative Midwestern values contrasted with Roosevelt’s East Coast progressivism—was nominated to balance the ticket. Roosevelt, TheodoreTheodore Roosevelt, 1904.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (digital file number cph 3a53299) Fairbanks, CharlesCharles Fairbanks.Courtesy of the Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. The Democratic Party, meanwhile, sought to position itself away from the liberal populism of William Jennings Bryan , who had failed to win the White House as the Democratic candidate in 1896 and 1900. After an early bid by Maryland Sen. Arthur Pue Gorman faltered and former president Grover Cleveland rejected calls to run for a fourth time, Alton B. Parker, a New York state appeals court judge with moderate views, emerged as the Democrats’ leading contender. Bryan promoted several of his supporters as challengers to Parker, though his mantle was largely taken up by newspaper magnate William Randolph Hearst , who had won election to the House of Representatives in 1903. Hearst’s estrangement from the party’s newly conservative direction doomed his candidacy, however. At the Democratic convention, held in St. Louis, Missouri, in July, Parker won the nomination on the first ballot. As the vice presidential nominee, Henry Gassaway Davis, a railroad tycoon and former West Virginia senator, became, at age 80, the oldest candidate ever to be named to a major party’s presidential ticket. Parker, Alton B.Alton B. Parker.Harris & Ewing Collection/Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (Digital File Number: LC-DIG-hec-17110) The campaign and election The campaign was mostly uneventful, and Roosevelt’s advantage was apparent from the start. Although Parker attracted attention when he pointedly made it known, in the absence of a Democratic platform position on the issue, that he supported the gold standard, his candidacy generated little excitement from the public. Meanwhile, Roosevelt’s progressive policies toward business and labour—he took an active role in breaking up corporate monopolies and intervened on behalf of Pennsylvania coal miners in a 1902 strike—made him less vulnerable to traditional criticism of Republicans as pro-industry. Furthermore, the generally favourable economic climate resulted in an electorate that was inclined toward the incumbent. In the final weeks before the election, Parker, who theretofore had run a “front-porch” campaign, embarked on a speaking tour, during which he accused Roosevelt’s campaign manager of having solicited donations from corporations in exchange for political favours. The charges, however, failed to be substantiated. Campaign button, depicting Theodore Roosevelt on horseback, 1904.Collection of David J. and Janice L. Frent Theodore Roosevelt “National Unity” campaign button, 1904.Collection of David J. and Janice L. Frent Theodore Roosevelt “Stand Pat” campaign button, 1904.Collection of David J. and Janice L. Frent Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today On election day Roosevelt achieved a landslide victory, with 336 electoral votes to Parker’s 140; the popular-vote margin was 56.4 percent to 37.6 percent. (Third-party candidates, including Socialist Eugene V. Debs , who captured more than 400,000 votes, won the remainder of the popular vote.) Of the 13 states Parker won, none was north of the Mason and Dixon Line, thus affirming the Democrats’ grip on the South while emphasizing its insufficiency in winning national elections. For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1900. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1908. John M. Cunningham Results of the 1904 election The results of the 1904 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1904 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001). Theodore Roosevelt Republican 336 7,623,486 Alton B. Parker Democratic 140 5,077,911 Eugene V. Debs Socialist 402,489 Silas C. Swallow Prohibition 258,596 Thomas E. Watson People's (Populist) 114,051 Charles H. Corregan Socialist Labor 33,156 Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Theodore Roosevelt: The Square Deal …his campaign slogan in the 1904 election.… Eugene V. Debs …he raised to 400,000 in 1904. In 1905 he helped found the Industrial Workers of the World, but he soon withdrew from the group because of its radicalism.… Republican Party Republican Party, in the United States, one of the two major political parties, the other being the Democratic Party. During the 19th century the Republican Party stood against the extension of slavery to the country’s new territories and, ultimately, for slavery’s complete abolition. During the… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1904 Quick Facts date November 8, 1904 participants Eugene V. Debs Charles Warren Fairbanks Alton B. Parker Theodore Roosevelt Thomas E. Watson Henry Gassaway Davis related topics Democratic Party Prohibition Party Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1904 Additional Information More About External Websites United States History - Election of 1904 Maps of World - U.S. Presidential Election 1904 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!