https://www.britannica.com/biography/Theodore-Roosevelt
Theodore Roosevelt | Biography, Facts, Presidency, & Accomplishments | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents Theodore Roosevelt president of United States Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction & Quick Facts The early years The Square Deal Foreign policy Last years as president Later years Cabinet of President Theodore Roosevelt Theodore Roosevelt president of United States Written By: John Milton Cooper Last Updated: Apr 17, 2020 See Article History Alternative Titles: TR, Teddy Roosevelt Learn about the Trust Buster's Progressive Square Deal and big-stick approach to foreign policyAn overview of Theodore Roosevelt.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article Roosevelt, Theodore: on the Russo-Japanese WarNewsreel footage recounting U.S. President Theodore Roosevelt's mediation of the peaceful conclusion to the Russo-Japanese War, 1905.J. Fred MacDonald & AssociatesSee all videos for this article Theodore Roosevelt, bynames Teddy Roosevelt and TR, (born October 27, 1858, New York, New York, U.S. —died January 6, 1919, Oyster Bay, New York ), 26th president of the United States (1901–09) and a writer, naturalist, and soldier. He expanded the powers of the presidency and of the federal government in support of the public interest in conflicts between big business and labour and steered the nation toward an active role in world politics, particularly in Europe and Asia. He won the Nobel Prize for Peace in 1906 for mediating an end to the Russo-Japanese War (1904–05), and he secured the route and began construction of the Panama Canal (1904–14). Key events in the life of Theodore Roosevelt.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Top Questions When was Theodore Roosevelt born and when did he die? Teddy Roosevelt was born on October 27, 1858. He died on January 6, 1919, at age 60. Where did Theodore Roosevelt get his education? Teddy Roosevelt graduated from Harvard College and briefly studied at Columbia Law School, though he did not finish. How did Theodore Roosevelt become famous? Though he had already been a public servant for nearly two decades, Theodore Roosevelt became a national hero for his role in the Spanish-American War, especially in leading the Rough Riders regiment. He was president of the United States from 1901 to 1909. What were Theodore Roosevelt’s accomplishments? Among Theodore Roosevelt’s many achievements, he is perhaps best known for expanding the powers of the presidency, the federal government, and American foreign policy. He is also known for “trust-busting” (that is, breaking up monopolies), mediating an end to the Russo-Japanese War, and initiating the construction of the Panama Canal. The early years Roosevelt was the second of four children born into a socially prominent family of Dutch and English ancestry; his father, Theodore Roosevelt, Sr., was a noted businessman and philanthropist, and his mother, Martha Bulloch of Georgia, came from a wealthy, slave-owning plantation family. In frail health as a boy, Roosevelt was educated by private tutors. From boyhood he displayed intense, wide-ranging intellectual curiosity. He graduated from Harvard College, where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa, in 1880. He then studied briefly at Columbia Law School but soon turned to writing and politics as a career. In 1880 he married Alice Hathaway Lee, by whom he had one daughter, Alice. After his first wife’s death, in 1886 he married Edith Kermit Carow (Edith Roosevelt), with whom he lived for the rest of his life at Sagamore Hill, an estate near Oyster Bay, Long Island, New York. They had five children: Theodore, Jr., Kermit, Ethel, Archibald, and Quentin. As a child, Roosevelt had suffered from severe asthma, and weak eyesight plagued him throughout his life. By dint of a program of physical exertion, he developed a strong physique and a lifelong love of vigorous activity. He adopted “the strenuous life,” as he entitled his 1901 book, as his ideal, both as an outdoorsman and as a politician. Theodore Roosevelt as a young man.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Elected as a Republican to the New York State Assembly at 23, Roosevelt quickly made a name for himself as a foe of corrupt machine politics. In 1884, overcome by grief by the deaths of both his mother and his wife on the same day, he left politics to spend two years on his cattle ranch in the badlands of the Dakota Territory, where he became increasingly concerned about environmental damage to the West and its wildlife. Nonetheless, he did participate as a delegate to the Republican National Convention in 1884. His attempt to reenter public life in 1886 was unsuccessful; he was defeated in a bid to become mayor of New York City. Roosevelt remained active in politics and again battled corruption as a member of the U.S. Civil Service Commission (1889–95) and as president of the New York City Board of Police Commissioners. Appointed assistant secretary of the navy by President William McKinley, he vociferously championed a bigger navy and agitated for war with Spain. When war was declared in 1898, he organized the 1st Volunteer Cavalry, known as the Rough Riders, who were sent to fight in Cuba. Roosevelt was a brave and well-publicized military leader. The charge of the Rough Riders (on foot) up Kettle Hill during the Battle of Santiago made him the biggest national hero to come out of the Spanish-American War. Theodore Roosevelt (centre left with glasses) and the Rough Riders, July 1898.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Theodore Roosevelt riding a horse.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today On his return, the Republican bosses in New York tapped Roosevelt to run for governor, despite their doubts about his political loyalty. Elected in 1898, he became an energetic reformer, removing corrupt officials and enacting legislation to regulate corporations and the civil service. His actions irked the party’s bosses so much that they conspired to get rid of him by drafting him for the Republican vice presidential nomination in 1900, assuming that his would be a largely ceremonial role. Elected with McKinley, Roosevelt chafed at his powerless office until September 14, 1901, when McKinley died after being shot by an assassin and he became president. Six weeks short of his 43rd birthday, Roosevelt was the youngest person ever to enter the presidency. Although he promised continuity with McKinley’s policies, he transformed the public image of the office at once. He renamed the executive mansion the White House and threw open its doors to entertain cowboys, prizefighters, explorers, writers, and artists. His refusal to shoot a bear cub on a 1902 hunting trip inspired a toy maker to name a stuffed bear after him, and the teddy bear fad soon swept the nation. His young children romped on the White House lawn, and the marriage of his daughter Alice in 1905 to Representative Nicholas Longworth of Ohio became the biggest social event of the decade. Roosevelt, Theodore: Campaign buttonCampaign button for Theodore Roosevelt, c. 1900.Americana/Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. From what he called the presidency’s “bully pulpit,” Roosevelt gave speeches aimed at raising public consciousness about the nation’s role in world politics, the need to control the trusts that dominated the economy, the regulation of railroads, and the impact of political corruption. He appointed young, college-educated men to administrative positions. But active as he was, he was cautious in his approach to domestic affairs. Roosevelt recognized that he had become president by accident, and he wanted above all to be elected in 1904. Likewise, as sensitive as he was to popular discontent about big business and political machines, he knew that conservative Republicans who were bitterly opposed to all reforms controlled both houses of Congress. Roosevelt focused his activities on foreign affairs and used his executive power to address problems of business and labour and the conservation of natural resources. Above all, Roosevelt relished the power of the office and viewed the presidency as an outlet for his unbounded energy. He was a proud and fervent nationalist who willingly bucked the passive Jeffersonian tradition of fearing the rise of a strong chief executive and a powerful central government. “I believe in a strong executive; I believe in power,” he wrote to British historian Sir George Otto Trevelyan. “While President, I have been President, emphatically; I have used every ounce of power there was in the office.…I do not believe that any President ever had as thoroughly good a time as I have had, or has ever enjoyed himself as much.” Theodore Roosevelt Quick Facts View Media Page born October 27, 1858 New York City, New York died January 6, 1919 (aged 60) Oyster Bay, New York title / office presidency of the United States of America, United States (1901-1909) vice president of the United States of America, United States (1901-1901) governor, New York (1899-1901) political affiliation Republican Party Bull Moose Party role in Meat Inspection Act Battle of Santiago de Cuba Treaty of Portsmouth Hay–Bunau-Varilla Treaty Algeciras Conference Brownsville Affair Big Stick policy Gentlemen’s Agreement Square Deal Roosevelt Corollary awards and honors Hall of Fame for Great Americans (1950) Nobel Prize (1906) founder of Rough Rider notable family members spouse Edith Roosevelt daughter Alice Roosevelt Longworth son Theodore Roosevelt, Jr. related facts and data Woodrow Wilson - Facts did you know? For his fourteenth birthday, Theodore Roosevelt received a shotgun. Roosevelt's mother and first wife died in 1884 on the same day. Roosevelt designated 230 million acres of U.S. land, approximately 1.5 times the size of France, as protected areas. After Roosevelt was shot, he left the bullet in his ribcage because physicians deemed its removal too dangerous. Load Next Page Theodore Roosevelt Additional Information More About Additional Reading Quotes External Websites USA 4 Kids - Biography of Theodore Roosevelt The Nobel Prize - Biography of Theodore Roosevelt PBS LearningMedia - The New Deal I | The Roosevelts Miller Center - Biography of Theodore Roosevelt The White House - Biography of Theodore Roosevelt Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Theodore Roosevelt - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) Theodore Roosevelt - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!