https://www.britannica.com/biography/Alton-B-Parker
Alton B. Parker | United States jurist | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Alton B. Parker United States jurist Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Alton B. Parker United States jurist Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Alternative Title: Alton Brooks Parker Alton B. Parker, (born May 14, 1852, Cortland, N.Y., U.S.—died May 10, 1926, New York, N.Y.), American jurist and Democratic presidential nominee in 1904, defeated by the incumbent, Theodore Roosevelt. Having practiced law in Kingston, N.Y., Parker was elected surrogate of Ulster county in 1877 and reelected six years later. He also was active in state Democratic Party affairs. He was appointed to the New York Supreme Court in 1885, the state Appeals Court in 1889, and the appellate division of the state Supreme Court in 1896. From 1898 to 1904 Parker was chief justice of the New York Court of Appeals. On the bench, he was noted for upholding the rights of labour. Nominated on the first ballot at the Democratic convention in 1904, Parker, representing the eastern, pro–gold-standard wing of the party, differed little from his opponent, President Theodore Roosevelt. Parker was soundly defeated, taking only 38 percent of the popular vote and winning 140 electoral votes to Roosevelt’s 336. Thereafter he returned to his law practice. This article was most recently revised and updated by Amy Tikkanen, Corrections Manager. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States presidential election of 1904 soundly defeated Democrat Alton B. Parker . Roosevelt’s win marked the first time that a president not originally elected to the office succeeded in retaining the presidency.… Theodore Roosevelt Theodore Roosevelt, 26th president of the United States (1901–09) and a writer, naturalist, and soldier. He expanded the powers of the presidency and of the federal government… United States presidential election of 1904 United States presidential election of 1904, American presidential election, held on November 8, 1904, in which Republican incumbent Pres. Theodore Roosevelt soundly defeated Democrat Alton B. Parker . Roosevelt’s win marked the first time that a president not originally elected to the office… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Alton B. Parker Quick Facts View Media Page born May 14, 1852 Cortland, New York died May 10, 1926 (aged 73) New York City, New York political affiliation Democratic Party Alton B. Parker Additional Information More About External Websites New York State Unified Court System - Biography of Alton B. Parker Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!