https://www.britannica.com/biography/Eugene-V-Debs
Eugene V. Debs | Biography & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Eugene V. Debs American social and labour leader Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Eugene V. Debs American social and labour leader Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Alternative Title: Eugene Victor Debs Eugene V. Debs, in full Eugene Victor Debs, (born November 5, 1855, Terre Haute, Indiana, U.S.—died October 20, 1926, Elmhurst, Illinois), labour organizer and Socialist Party candidate for U.S. president five times between 1900 and 1920. Top Questions How did Eugene V. Debs become famous? Eugene V. Debs was president of the newly established American Railway Union when it won national prominence by conducting a successful strike against the Great Northern Railway Company in April 1894. He gained greater renown when he was sentenced to six months in jail in 1895 for his role in leading the Chicago Pullman Palace Car Company strike. What was Eugene V. Debs’s early life like? At age 14, Eugene V. Debs began working in a railroad shop, later becoming a locomotive fireman. In 1875 he helped organize a local lodge of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen, of which he was elected national secretary and treasurer in 1880. He was city clerk of Terre Haute, Indiana, and a member of the Indiana legislature. What did Eugene V. Debs believe in? Influenced by Karl Marx, Eugene V. Debs was critical of traditional political and economic concepts, especially capitalism. He saw the labour movement as a struggle between classes. After announcing his conversion to socialism in 1897, he led the establishment of the Socialist Party of America and was its candidate for U.S. president five times between 1900 and 1920. Debs left home at age 14 to work in the railroad shops and later became a locomotive fireman. In 1875 he helped organize a local lodge of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen, of which he was elected national secretary and treasurer in 1880. He also served as city clerk of Terre Haute (1879–83) and as a member of the Indiana legislature (1885). From his earliest days, Debs advocated the organization of labour by industry rather than by craft. After trying unsuccessfully to unite the various railroad brotherhoods of his day, he became president (1893) of the newly established American Railway Union. Debs successfully united railway workers from different crafts into the first industrial union in the United States. At the same time, industrial unionism was also being promoted by the Knights of Labor. Debs, Eugene V.Eugene V. Debs.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Debs’s union won national prominence when it conducted a successful strike for higher wages against the Great Northern Railway in April 1894. He gained greater renown when he was sentenced to six months in jail (May–November 1895) for his role in leading the Chicago Pullman Palace Car Company strike. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today During his prison term at Woodstock, Illinois, Debs was deeply influenced by his broad reading—including the works of Karl Marx—and grew increasingly critical of traditional political and economic concepts, especially capitalism. He also saw the labour movement as a struggle between classes. Sympathetic toward Populist doctrines, he campaigned for the Democratic-Populist presidential candidate William Jennings Bryan in 1896. After announcing his conversion to socialism in 1897, he led the establishment of the Socialist Party of America. Debs was the party’s presidential candidate in 1900 but received only 96,000 votes, a total he raised to 400,000 in 1904. In 1905 he helped found the Industrial Workers of the World, but he soon withdrew from the group because of its radicalism. Socialist Party: Eugene V. Debs and Ben HanfordCampaign poster for Eugene V. Debs and Ben Hanford, the Socialist Party's candidates in the 1904 U.S. presidential election.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Debs was again the Socialist Party candidate for president in 1908, 1912, and 1920 (he refused the nomination in 1916). His highest popular vote total came in 1920, when he received about 915,000 votes. Ironically, he was in prison at the time, serving a sentence for having criticized the U.S. government’s prosecution of persons charged with violation of the 1917 Espionage Act. He was released from prison by presidential order in 1921; however, his U.S. citizenship, which he lost when he was convicted of sedition in 1918, was restored only posthumously in 1976. Debs’s years of living in harsh prison conditions adversely affected his health, and he spent long periods of the remainder of his life in a sanatorium in suburban Chicago. Debs, Eugene: 1912 presidential campaign novelty cupNovelty drinking cup from Eugene Debs's 1912 presidential campaign.The Newberry Library, Gift of May Walden, 1959 (A Britannica Publishing Partner) Neither an intellectual nor a hardheaded politician, Debs won support through his personal warmth, integrity, and sincerity. He was extremely effective as a public speaker and made his living primarily as a lecturer and contributor to various periodicals. Among his best-known writings are a pamphlet, Unionism and Socialism (1904), and a book, Walls and Bars (1927). The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica This article was most recently revised and updated by Adam Augustyn, Managing Editor, Reference Content. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: In re Debs: The trial of Eugene V. Debs On July 7, at the height of the violence, federal officers arrested Debs and four other ARU leaders, releasing them on $10,000 bond. They were accused of being in contempt of court for violating the terms of the injunction by continuing to… Indiana: Transportation …Terre Haute in 1893 by Eugene V. Debs, five-time Socialist candidate for president. The following year it was involved in the Pullman strike, which advocated a countrywide boycott of Pullman railroad cars and ultimately brought the intervention of federal troops and Debs’s imprisonment.… Pullman Strike: The strike and boycott The ARU’s president, Eugene V. Debs, predicted that, once the switchmen refused to add or remove Pullman cars from trains, the railroads would fire them and try to replace them with nonunion workers, and that in turn would lead other union members to walk out in solidarity, thus… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Eugene V. Debs Quick Facts View Media Page born November 5, 1855 Terre Haute, Indiana died October 20, 1926 (aged 70) Elmhurst, Illinois political affiliation Socialist Party role in Pullman Strike founder of Socialist Party Eugene V. Debs Additional Information More About Additional Reading Quotes External Websites Industrial Workers of the World - Biography of Eugene V Debs Debs Foundation - Chronobiography of Eugene V. Debs Ohio History Central - Biography of Eugene V. Debs Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Eugene V. Debs - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!