https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1908
United States presidential election of 1908 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1908 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction The candidates The campaign Results of the 1908 election United States presidential election of 1908 United States government Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History United States presidential election of 1908, American presidential election held on November 3, 1908, in which Republican William Howard Taft defeated Democrat William Jennings Bryan . American presidential election, 1908Results of the American presidential election, 1908 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes William Howard Taft Republican 321 7,678,908 William Jennings Bryan Democratic 162 6,409,104 Eugene V. Debs Socialist 420,380 Eugene W. Chafin Prohibition 252,821 Thomas L. Hisgen Independence 82,537 Thomas E. Watson People's (Populist) 28,376 August Gillhaus Socialist Labor 14,018 Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001).Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The candidates The biggest announcement in the run-up to the 1908 presidential election came in 1904 when, on the evening of his election, Pres. Theodore Roosevelt announced that he would not seek a subsequent term in office. Roosevelt was extremely popular as president, and many thought he might reconsider and run as 1908 neared. However, after careful consideration of potential successors, Roosevelt threw his support behind William Howard Taft in early 1907. Taft was Roosevelt’s secretary of war and a trusted adviser, and the two had similar political ideas. Having been handpicked by the president, Taft easily won the Republican nomination on the first ballot when the Republican convention met in June 1908 in Chicago, defeating, among others, Vice Pres. Charles W. Fairbanks , Speaker of the House Joe Cannon , and Sen. Robert La Follette . New York Congressman James S. Sherman was chosen as his running mate. The following month in Denver, the Democrats overwhelmingly nominated the popular William Jennings Bryan for the third time, also on the first ballot. Future senator John Worth Kern was chosen for the vice presidential slot. Taft, William HowardWilliam Howard Taft.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (Digital File Number: cph 3a53300) Bryan, William JenningsWilliam Jennings Bryan, c. 1907.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (Digital File Number: cph 3b41852) The campaign The Republican platform promised a continuation of the vein Roosevelt had started. The Democrats, galvanized by Roosevelt’s decision not to vie for the nomination, strove to unify their party against his chosen successor. The Democratic platform called for an array of reforms, including regulation of railroads and lower tariffs. Both campaigns relied heavily on local committees to get the word out to the general public rather than holding large rallies. Taft began his campaign slowly, not hitting the campaign trail personally until August, when he embarked on a tour largely in the Midwest and the South. Roosevelt also spoke out on Taft’s behalf. Bryan started strong, giving many speeches, though his campaign’s strength dwindled in the crucial last weeks before the election. During this time, Republicans thrust their most influential speakers into the spotlight. Although Bryan swept the Southern vote, his third and final run was not strong enough to win him the presidency. Taft defeated him with 321 electoral votes to 162. Taft, William Howard: Campaign cardCard from the William Howard Taft presidential campaign, c. 1908.Americana/Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1904. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1912. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Results of the 1908 election The results of the 1908 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1908 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001). William Howard Taft Republican 321 7,678,908 William Jennings Bryan Democratic 162 6,409,104 Eugene V. Debs Socialist 420,380 Eugene W. Chafin Prohibition 252,821 Thomas L. Hisgen Independence 82,537 Thomas E. Watson People's (Populist) 28,376 August Gillhaus Socialist Labor 14,018 This article was most recently revised and updated by Alison Eldridge, Digital Content Manager. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: Building the Panama Canal and American domination in the Caribbean Howard Taft (see U.S. presidential election of 1908), had more ambitious plans to guarantee American hegemony in the approaches to the Panama Canal. Adopting a policy called Dollar Diplomacy, Taft hoped to persuade American private bankers to displace European creditors in the Caribbean area and thereby to increase… William Howard Taft: Early political career …to Taft, who won the 1908 Republican nomination and defeated Democrat William Jennings Bryan in the electoral college by 321 votes to 162. Progressive Republicans, who had found their champion in Theodore Roosevelt, now expected Roosevelt’s handpicked successor to carry forward their reform agenda. (See primary source document: Inaugural Address.)… Eugene V. Debs …Party candidate for president in 1908, 1912, and 1920 (he refused the nomination in 1916). His highest popular vote total came in 1920, when he received about 915,000 votes. Ironically, he was in prison at the time, serving a sentence for having criticized the U.S. government’s prosecution of persons charged… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1908 Quick Facts date November 3, 1908 participants William Jennings Bryan Eugene V. Debs James Sherman William Howard Taft Thomas E. Watson John Worth Kern related topics Democratic Party Prohibition Party Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1908 Additional Information More About External Websites Maps of World - U.S. Presidential Election 1908 History Central - Presidential Elections 1908 United States History - Election of 1908 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!