https://www.britannica.com/biography/William-Howard-Taft
William Howard Taft | Biography, Accomplishments, Presidency, & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents William Howard Taft president and chief justice of United States Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction & Quick Facts Early political career Presidency Life after the presidency Cabinet of Pres. William Howard Taft William Howard Taft president and chief justice of United States Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Apr 17, 2020 See Article History William Howard Taft, (born September 15, 1857, Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S. —died March 8, 1930, Washington, D.C. ), 27th president of the United States (1909–13) and 10th chief justice of the United States (1921–30). As the choice of Pres. Theodore Roosevelt to succeed him and carry on the progressive Republican agenda, Taft as president alienated the progressives—and later Roosevelt—thereby contributing greatly to the split in Republican ranks in 1912, to the formation of the Bull Moose Party (also known as the Progressive Party), and to his humiliating defeat that year in his bid for a second term. Key events in the life of William Howard Taft.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Early political career The son of Alphonso Taft, secretary of war and attorney general (1876–77) under Pres. Ulysses S. Grant, and Louisa Maria Torrey, Taft graduated second in his Yale class of 1878, studied law, and was admitted to the Ohio bar in 1880. Drawn to politics in the Republican Party, he served in several minor appointive offices until 1887, when he was named to fill the unfinished term of a judge of the superior court of Ohio. The following year he was elected to a five-year term of his own, the only time he ever attained office via popular vote other than his election to the presidency. From 1892 to 1900 he served as a judge of the United States Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals, where he made several decisions hostile to organized labour. He upheld the use of an injunction to stop a strike by railroad workers, and he declared illegal the use of a secondary boycott. On the other hand, he upheld the rights of workers to organize, to join a union, and to strike, and he extended the power of the injunction to enforce antitrust laws. Taft, William HowardWilliam Howard Taft.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Taft resigned his judgeship on March 15, 1900, to accept appointment by Pres. William McKinley to serve as chairman of the Second Philippine Commission. Charged with organizing civil government in the islands following the Spanish-American War (1898), Taft displayed considerable talent as an executive and administrator. In 1901 he became the first civilian governor of the Philippines, concentrating in that post on the economic development of the islands. Fond of and very popular among the Philippine people, Taft twice refused to leave the islands when offered appointment to the Supreme Court by Pres. Theodore Roosevelt. In 1904 he agreed to return to Washington to serve as Roosevelt’s secretary of war, with the stipulation that he could continue to supervise Philippine affairs. Secretary of War William Howard Taft and Alice Roosevelt on a goodwill mission to Japan and the Philippines in 1905.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Taft, William Howard; Roosevelt, AliceWilliam Howard Taft (seated centre right, in white) with Alice Roosevelt (seated centre left, with hat) as guests of the Philippine government, 1905.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Although dissimilar in both physique and temperament, the rotund, easygoing Taft and the muscular, almost-manic Roosevelt nonetheless became close friends; the president regarded his secretary of war as a trusted adviser. When Roosevelt declined to run for reelection, he threw his support to Taft, who won the 1908 Republican nomination and defeated Democrat William Jennings Bryan in the electoral college by 321 votes to 162. Progressive Republicans, who had found their champion in Theodore Roosevelt, now expected Roosevelt’s handpicked successor to carry forward their reform agenda. Taft, William Howard: Campaign cardCard from the William Howard Taft presidential campaign, c. 1908.Americana/Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Presidency However, progressives soon found abundant reason to be disappointed with Taft. Temperamentally, he lacked Roosevelt’s compelling leadership qualities, which had inspired people to charge into battle against all that was wrong in American society. Politically, Taft offended progressives when he failed to appoint any from their ranks to his cabinet. He further angered progressives when he backed the Payne-Aldrich Tariff of 1909, a highly protectionist measure that ironically was the product of a special session of Congress called (by Taft) to revise tariff rates downward. Progressives, who favoured lower tariffs, expected a veto. When Taft not only signed the tariff but called it “the best bill that the party has ever passed,” the rupture in Republican ranks seemed unlikely to be mended. Taft, William Howard; Taft, Charles P.William Howard Taft with his son Charles at the family cottage in Beverly, Mass.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Taft's tariff support “Saved,” cartoon by W.A. Rogers for the New York Herald, depicting William Howard Taft's support for the Payne-Aldrich Tariff, 1909.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Despite his close relationship with Roosevelt, Taft as president aligned himself with the more conservative members in the Republican Party. He did prove to be a vigorous trustbuster, however, launching twice as many antitrust prosecutions as had his progressive predecessor. He also backed conservation of natural resources, another key component of the progressive reform program. But when he fired Gifford Pinchot—head of the Bureau of Forestry, ardent conservationist, and close friend of Roosevelt—Taft severed whatever support he still had among Republican progressives. Taft, William Howard: inspection of Panama CanalWilliam Howard Taft (centre) at an inspection during construction of the Panama Canal.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Roosevelt returned from an African safari in 1910, and progressives quickly urged him to come out publicly in opposition to his political protégé. At first Roosevelt declined to criticize Taft by name, but by 1912 a breach between the former friends was clearly evident. When Roosevelt decided to challenge Taft for the Republican presidential nomination, the two attacked each other mercilessly in the Republican primary elections. The primary results proved beyond doubt that Republican voters wanted Roosevelt to be the party’s standard-bearer in 1912, but Taft’s forces controlled the convention and secured the nomination for the incumbent. Believing that the convention had been rigged and that their man had been cheated out of the nomination he deserved, Republican progressives bolted their party to form the Bull Moose (or Progressive) Party and nominated Roosevelt as their presidential candidate. Taft, William Howard: ceremony opening the Gunnison TunnelPres. William Howard Taft ceremonially opening the Gunnison Tunnel, part of an irrigation project in Montrose, Colo., 1909.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The split in Republican ranks assured the election of Democrat Woodrow Wilson. Roosevelt came in a distant second, and Taft, capturing less than a quarter of the popular vote, won just two states—Utah and Vermont. In the electoral college, Taft set a record for the poorest performance by an incumbent president seeking reelection: He won a mere 8 electoral votes compared with 88 for Roosevelt and 435 for Wilson. Cartoon depicting William Howard Taft and Theodore Roosevelt lying exhausted after the 1912 presidential campaign and saying, “Cheer up! I might have won.”Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. As president, Taft frequently claimed that “politics makes me sick.” Never eager for the office, he had been prodded to pursue it by his wife, Helen Herron Taft, whom he had married in 1886. As first lady, she was a key political adviser to her husband. Taft, William Howard; Taft, Helen HerronWilliam Howard Taft and Helen Herron Taft at the family cottage in Beverly, Mass.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. William Howard Taft Quick Facts View Media Page born September 15, 1857 Cincinnati, Ohio died March 8, 1930 (aged 72) Washington, D.C., United States title / office Supreme Court of the United States, United States (1921-1930) supreme court, United States (1921-1930) presidency of the United States of America, United States (1909-1913) governor, Philippines (1901-1904) political affiliation Republican Party role in Myers v. United States notable family members spouse Helen Taft related facts and data Woodrow Wilson - Facts Load Next Page William Howard Taft Additional Information More About Additional Reading External Websites Spartacus Educational - Biography of William Taft United States History - Biography of William Howard Taft Ohio History Central - Biography of William H. Taft The White House - Biography of William Howard Taft Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. William Howard Taft - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) William Howard Taft - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!