https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1912
United States presidential election of 1912 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1912 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction The rise of the Republican “insurgents” The general election campaign Results of the 1912 election United States presidential election of 1912 United States government Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Alternative Title: U.S. presidential election of 1912 United States presidential election of 1912, American presidential election held on November 5, 1912, in which Democrat Woodrow Wilson defeated Bull Moose (Progressive) candidate and former Republican president Theodore Roosevelt and Republican incumbent president William Howard Taft. American presidential election, 1912Results of the American presidential election, 1912 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes Woodrow Wilson Democratic 435 6,293,454 Theodore Roosevelt Progressive (Bull Moose) 88 4,119,207 William Howard Taft Republican 8 3,483,922 Eugene V. Debs Socialist 900,369 Eugene W. Chafin Prohibition 207,972 Arthur E. Reimer Socialist Labor 29,374 Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001).Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The rise of the Republican “insurgents” Theodore Roosevelt first came to the presidency in 1901, following the assassination of William McKinley, but won election in his own right in 1904 and proved a very popular chief executive. Shortly after the election of 1904, he announced that he would not be a candidate four years later—though he was so much the idol of the masses that he could easily have gained the Republican nomination in 1908. Adhering stubbornly to his pledge, he arranged the nomination of his secretary of war, William Howard Taft, who was easily elected president in 1908. Theodore Roosevelt, c. 1904.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C., Pach Brothers (neg. no. LC-USZ62-13026) Theodore Roosevelt, left, and his successor, William Howard Taft, 1912.Topical Press Agency/Hulton Archive/Getty Images Taft faced a restless public and a split Republican Party. National progressivism was nearly at high tide, and a large group of Republican progressives, called “insurgents,” sat in both houses of Congress. These Republicans, like a majority of Americans, demanded such reforms as tariff reductions, an income tax, the direct election of senators, and even stricter railroad and corporation regulations. Taft, who thought of himself as a progressive, was more conservative philosophically and lacked the qualities of a dynamic popular leader. His troubles began when he called Congress into special session in 1909 to take up tariff reform. When the measure that emerged from Congress increased rates, Republican insurgents and a majority of Americans were outraged, but Taft signed the bill and called it the best tariff law the Republicans had ever enacted. Conflicts and misunderstandings over conservation and legislative procedure caused the rift between Taft Republicans and the insurgents to grow. By 1910 the Republican insurgents were clearly in the ascendancy in Congress. Taking control of the president’s railroad-regulation measure, they added new provisions that greatly increased the Interstate Commerce Commission’s authority. The following year they bitterly opposed Taft’s measure for tariff reciprocity with Canada; it passed with Democratic support in Congress, only to go down to defeat at the hands of the Canadian electorate. Taft, William HowardWilliam Howard Taft, 1909.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Republican insurgents were determined to prevent Taft’s renomination in 1912. They found their leader in Roosevelt, who had become increasingly alienated from Taft and who made a whirlwind campaign for the presidential nomination in the winter and spring of 1912. Roosevelt swept the presidential primaries, even in Taft’s home state of Ohio. But Taft and conservative Republicans controlled the powerful state organizations and the Republican National Committee, and when the Republicans gathered at their national convention in Chicago in June 1912 it proved a bitter, divisive affair. Taft, Roosevelt, and Wisconsin Sen. Robert M. La Follette, a leading reformer, sought the nomination, but so complete were Taft’s supporters’ control over the party machinery that delegate challenges made by Roosevelt were all beaten back—leading Roosevelt to refuse to have his name entered into nomination. In the event, Taft was nominated on the first ballot, and Vice Pres. James S. Sherman was easily renominated. Convinced that the bosses had stolen the nomination from him, Roosevelt led his followers out of the Republican convention. In August they organized the Progressive (“Bull Moose”) Party and named Roosevelt to lead the third-party cause. Hiram Johnson, the reform Republican governor of California, became Roosevelt’s running mate. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Meanwhile, the Democrats had swept the 1910 congressional and gubernatorial elections, and after the disruption of the Republican Party in the spring of 1912 it was obvious that almost any passable Democrat could win the presidency in that year. Meeting in Baltimore, Maryland, a week after the Republican convention, the Democrats had a number of candidates contesting the nomination, including speaker of the House Champ Clark and former president of Princeton University Woodrow Wilson, who had a progressive record as governor of New Jersey. Ultimately, Wilson secured the Democratic nomination on the 46th ballot, and Thomas R. Marshall was chosen as his running mate. Woodrow WilsonWoodrow Wilson.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The general election campaign “The Right of the People to Rule,” speech given by Theodore Roosevelt as he campaigned for the U.S. presidency, 1912.U.S. Department of the Interior, National Park Service, Edison National Historical Site Compare the Progressive politics of Teddy Roosevelt, William Howard Taft, and Woodrow WilsonThe U.S. presidential election of 1912.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article The Democrats emerged from their convention in strong shape, given that Wilson was, in effect, facing two Republicans. Roosevelt and the Bull Moose movement stressed its progressive, reform credentials, even backing women’s suffrage. For Taft, his single objective in the 1912 campaign was to defeat Roosevelt. The real contest, however, was between Roosevelt and Wilson for control of the progressive majority. Campaigning strenuously on a platform that he called the New Nationalism, Roosevelt demanded effective control of big business through a strong federal commission, radical tax reform, and a whole series of measures to put the federal government squarely into the business of social and economic reform. By contrast, Wilson seemed conservative with a program he called the New Freedom; it envisaged a concerted effort to destroy monopoly and to open the doors of economic opportunity to small businessmen through drastic tariff reduction, banking reform, and severe tightening of antitrust laws. Wilson, Woodrow: 1912 presidential campaignWoodrow Wilson shaking hands during his presidential campaign, c. 1912.Courtesy of the Woodrow Wilson Presidential Library, Staunton, Virginia On election day, November 5, Roosevelt outpolled Taft but failed to win many Democratic progressives away from Wilson. Though Wilson captured only about 42 percent of the popular vote, he won 435 electoral votes. Between them, Roosevelt and Taft secured 7.6 million votes—1.3 million more than Wilson—but Roosevelt won only 88 electoral votes, and Taft won only 8. Taft’s 8 electoral votes represented the worst performance by an incumbent seeking reelection. Wilson, born in Virginia, thus became the first Southern-born president elected since the American Civil War (1861–65). For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1908. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1916. Results of the 1912 election The results of the 1912 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1912 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001). Woodrow Wilson Democratic 435 6,293,454 Theodore Roosevelt Progressive (Bull Moose) 88 4,119,207 William Howard Taft Republican 8 3,483,922 Eugene V. Debs Socialist 900,369 Eugene W. Chafin Prohibition 207,972 Arthur E. Reimer Socialist Labor 29,374 This article was most recently revised and updated by Amy Tikkanen, Corrections Manager. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Woodrow Wilson: Early life, education, and governorship Prevailing at the 1912 convention after a hard struggle against better-entrenched rivals, Wilson entered into an exciting three-way race for president. Former president Theodore Roosevelt’s bolt to the Progressive (Bull Moose) Party had split the dominant Republican Party, a factor that allowed Wilson to be elected with only… progressivism: Diversity and disagreement within progressivism For example, the progressives’ 1912 presidential campaign, with the celebrated former president Theodore Roosevelt as its standard bearer, was deeply divided over whether the reform movement should attack legally enforced racial segregation in the South (see Jim Crow laws). In the end it did not, instead accepting the right… Eugene V. Debs …candidate for president in 1908, 1912, and 1920 (he refused the nomination in 1916). His highest popular vote total came in 1920, when he received about 915,000 votes. Ironically, he was in prison at the time, serving a sentence for having criticized the U.S. government’s prosecution of persons charged with… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1912 Quick Facts date November 5, 1912 participants Eugene V. Debs Hiram Johnson Thomas R. Marshall Theodore Roosevelt James Sherman William Howard Taft Woodrow Wilson related topics Bull Moose Party Democratic Party Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1912 Additional Information More About External Websites United States History - Election of 1912: The Bull Moose Party Makes it a Three-Way Race Maps of World - U.S. Presidential Election 1912 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!