https://www.britannica.com/biography/Woodrow-Wilson
Woodrow Wilson | Biography, Presidency, & Accomplishments | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents Woodrow Wilson president of United States Article Facts & Data Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction & Quick Facts Early life, education, and governorship First term as president Second term as president Later years Cabinet of President Woodrow Wilson Woodrow Wilson president of United States Written By: John Milton Cooper Last Updated: Apr 17, 2020 See Article History Alternative Title: Thomas Woodrow Wilson Learn about Woodrow Wilson's Fourteen Points designed to sow peace after World War IAn overview of Woodrow Wilson.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article Woodrow Wilson, in full Thomas Woodrow Wilson, (born December 28, 1856, Staunton, Virginia, U.S. —died February 3, 1924, Washington, D.C. ), 28th president of the United States (1913–21), an American scholar and statesman best remembered for his legislative accomplishments and his high-minded idealism. Wilson led his country into World War I and became the creator and leading advocate of the League of Nations, for which he was awarded the 1919 Nobel Prize for Peace. During his second term the Nineteenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, giving women the right to vote, was passed and ratified. He suffered a paralytic stroke while seeking American public support for the Treaty of Versailles (October 1919), and his incapacity, which lasted for the rest of his term of office, caused the worst crisis of presidential disability in American history. Key events in the life of Woodrow Wilson.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Top Questions When was Woodrow Wilson president? Woodrow Wilson, one of 13 U.S. presidents who served two full terms of office, was the 28th president of the United States, serving from 1913 to 1921. Throughout his presidency, Wilson fought for reforms with respect to labour laws, the rights of women, and international relations. What were Woodrow Wilson’s accomplishments? Woodrow Wilson created the League of Nations after World War I (1914–18). He presided over ratification of the Nineteenth Amendment, giving women the right to vote, and laws that prohibited child labour and that mandated an eight-hour workday for railroad workers. He appointed the first Jewish justice, Louis Brandeis, to the U.S. Supreme Court. Why was Woodrow Wilson so influential? Although his historical reputation suffered in his final years because of Republican political gains, during World War II Woodrow Wilson’s reputation soared. He was considered a wrongly unheeded prophet whose policies would have prevented world calamity. Nevertheless, the creation of the United Nations and collective security pacts are viewed as fulfillment of his internationalist vision. Early life, education, and governorship Wilson’s father, Joseph Ruggles Wilson, was a Presbyterian minister who had moved to Virginia from Ohio and was the son of Scotch-Irish immigrants; his mother, Janet Woodrow, the daughter of a Presbyterian minister, had been born in England of Scottish parentage. Wilson was the only president since Andrew Jackson to have a foreign-born parent. Naturally enough, the Presbyterian church played a commanding role in the upbringing of “Tommy” Wilson. The family left Virginia before his second birthday, as his father successively held pastorates in Augusta, Georgia, and Wilmington, North Carolina, and taught at the Columbia Theological Seminary in South Carolina. His uncle, James Woodrow, was the leading light of the seminary faculty, and after college the young man dropped his first name both to emphasize the family connection and because he thought “Woodrow Wilson” sounded more dignified. His father served during the Civil War as a chaplain with the Confederate army, and his church in Augusta was turned into a military hospital. The young Wilson was deeply affected by the horrors of the war. Apparently dyslexic from childhood, Wilson did not learn to read until after he was 10 and never became a rapid reader. Nevertheless, he developed passionate interests in politics and literature. He attended Davidson College near Charlotte, North Carolina, for a year before entering what is now Princeton University in 1875. At Princeton he blossomed intellectually, reading widely, engaging in debate, and editing the college newspaper. While still an undergraduate, he published a scholarly essay that compared the American government with the British parliamentary system, a subject that he would develop further in his first book and apply in his own political career. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today After graduation from Princeton in 1879, Wilson studied law at the University of Virginia, with the hope that law would lead to politics. Two years of humdrum legal practice in Atlanta disillusioned him, and he abandoned his law career for graduate study in government and history at Johns Hopkins University, where in 1886 he received a Ph.D.; he was the only president to have earned that degree. Wilson, WoodrowWoodrow Wilson as a young man, c. 1876–86.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (cph 3c30978) Wilson’s doctoral thesis was also his first book, Congressional Government: A Study in American Politics (1885), which further developed his comparison between the American and parliamentary government and suggested reforms that would make the American system more efficient and more answerable to public opinion. Among his later works are a general analysis of government, The State: Elements of Historical and Practical Politics (1889); a history of the United States, Division and Reunion, 1829–1889 (1893); the five-volume A History of the American People (1902); and Constitutional Government in the United States (1908), in which Wilson elegantly set forth the modern view of the president as “the representative of no constituency, but of the whole people. When he speaks in his true character, he speaks for no special interest.” In 1885 Wilson married Ellen Louise Axson (Ellen Wilson), the daughter of a Presbyterian minister from Rome, Georgia, with whom he had three daughters, Margaret, Jessie, and Eleanor. The marriage was warm and happy, although it was shadowed by Ellen’s bouts of depression and Wilson’s brief extramarital affair with Mary Allen Peck. Ellen’s death in August 1914 devastated Wilson with grief, which lifted only when he met and courted Edith Bolling Galt (Edith Wilson), whom he married in December 1915. Wilson, EllenEllen Wilson, c. 1912.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. President Woodrow Wilson and first lady Edith Wilson.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (reproduction no. LC-USZ62-65032) Wilson was a professional academic before he became president. He began his career teaching history and political science at Bryn Mawr College in 1885 and moved to Wesleyan University in Connecticut in 1888. Two years later he went to Princeton, where he quickly became the most popular and highest-paid faculty member. In 1902 he was the unanimous choice to become president of Princeton. Wilson upgraded the university both financially and intellectually, and he attempted far-reaching reforms of both undergraduate and graduate education. Several of his policies were adopted, but his reforms for restructuring and democratizing the university ran afoul of opposition from faculty conservatives and wealthy alumni and forced him to abandon several of his key plans. Woodrow Wilson, 1903.© Photos.com/Thinkstock Meanwhile, the publicity that Wilson had generated as Princeton’s president attracted the attention of conservative kingmakers in the Democratic Party, who offered him the 1910 nomination for governor of New Jersey. Wilson resigned from the university, and, artfully turning the tables on his patrons, he won the governorship with a dynamic, progressive campaign. Once in office he put his earlier ideas about parliamentary practices to work in implementing a sweeping reform program that gave him a national reputation and made him a contender for the Democratic presidential nomination. Prevailing at the 1912 convention after a hard struggle against better-entrenched rivals, Wilson entered into an exciting three-way race for president. Former president Theodore Roosevelt’s bolt to the Progressive (Bull Moose) Party had split the dominant Republican Party, a factor that allowed Wilson to be elected with only 42 percent of the popular vote but with an electoral college landslide of 435 votes to Roosevelt’s 88 and William Howard Taft’s 8. In that campaign, Wilson answered Roosevelt’s call for a “New Nationalism” with his own equally compelling vision of a “New Freedom.” Wilson was the first Southern-born president elected since the Civil War. Presidential Administrations, 1900–18A 1912 poster shows Theodore Roosevelt, Woodrow Wilson, and William Howard Taft, all working at desks, superimposed on a map of the United States. The three were candidates in the 1912 election.Prints and Photographs Division/Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (digital file no. LC-DIG-ds-00696) Woodrow Wilson Quick Facts View Media Page born December 28, 1856 Staunton, Virginia died February 3, 1924 (aged 67) Washington, D.C., United States title / office presidency of the United States of America, United States (1913-1921) governor, New Jersey (1911-1913) political affiliation Democratic Party subjects of study history of United States role in World War I Selective Service Acts Zimmermann Telegram Treaty of Versailles Fourteen Points Paris Peace Conference United States Occupation of Veracruz Clayton Antitrust Act Sussex Incident Underwood-Simmons Tariff Act awards and honors Hall of Fame for Great Americans (1950) Nobel Prize (1919) notable family members spouse Ellen Wilson spouse Edith Wilson View Facts & Data Load Next Page Woodrow Wilson Additional Information More About Additional Reading Quotes External Websites America's Story from America's Library - Biography of Thomas Woodrow Wilson New Georgia Encyclopedia - History and Archaeology - Biography of Woodrow Wilson USA 4 Kids - Biography of Woodrow Wilson Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars - Biography of Woodrow Wilson The White House - Biography of Woodrow Wilson The History Learning Site - Biography of Woodrow Wilson FirstWorldWar.com - Biography of Woodrow Wilson The Nobel Prize - Biography of Woodrow Wilson Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Woodrow Wilson - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) Woodrow Wilson - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!