https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1916
United States presidential election of 1916 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1916 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction Wilson’s “New Freedom” The campaign and election Results of the 1916 election United States presidential election of 1916 United States government Written By: Richard Pallardy See Article History United States presidential election of 1916, American presidential election held on November 7, 1916, in which Democratic incumbent Woodrow Wilson defeated Republican Charles Evan Hughes in the electoral college 277–254. American presidential election, 1916Results of the American presidential election, 1916 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes Woodrow Wilson Democratic 277 9,129,606 Charles Evans Hughes Republican 254 8,538,221 Allan L. Benson Socialist 589,924 J. Frank Hanly Prohibition 221,030 Arthur E. Reimer Socialist Labor 15,284 Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001).Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Wilson’s “New Freedom” Though his election in 1912 was largely attributable to the formation of the Bull Moose Party (officially, the Progressive Party) from the Republican Party’s more liberal elements and the subsequent split in voting, Wilson’s first term was marked by a raft of popular progressive legislation that left him well positioned to win a second term. The Underwood Tariff Act of 1913 reduced the rates set by the Payne-Aldrich Tariff Act of 1909 from 40 percent to 25 percent, greatly enlarged the list of untaxed goods, and included a modest income tax. Also in 1913 he shepherded the Federal Reserve Act through Congress, creating the Federal Reserve System in order to mobilize banking reserves and issue a flexible new currency—federal reserve notes—based on gold and commercial paper. A third victory came with passage of the Clayton Antitrust Act (1914), which strengthened existing laws against anticompetitive business actions and gave labour unions relief from court injunctions. Accompanying this act was one creating the Federal Trade Commission, intended to prevent unfair business practices. Woodrow Wilson, 1912.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (neg. no. LC-USZ62-13028) Wilson further augmented this “New Freedom” package in 1916 with several pieces of legislation that were intended to attract defectors from the disintegrating Bull Moose Party in his upcoming reelection bid. Among them were laws to create an agency to regulate overseas shipping, to make the first government loans to farmers (a move that marked a reversal of his previous position), to prohibit child labour (later ruled unconstitutional), to raise income and inheritance taxes, and to mandate an eight-hour workday for railroad workers. Wilson was renominated without issue by the Democrats at their convention in St. Louis in June, as was his vice president, Thomas Marshall. Meanwhile, the Republican Party attempted to realign itself. The internecine conflicts of the previous election were still in play, but the party had made gains in Congress in the 1914 midterm elections, and some members of the Bull Moose Party had drifted back to the fold. Among them was former president Theodore Roosevelt, who had himself instigated the formation of the splinter group. Indeed, despite the fatal blow to his popularity among Republicans, the charismatic Roosevelt put his name in the running for the presidential nomination. He was rejected in favour of Charles Evans Hughes, an associate Supreme Court justice and former governor of New York, at the party’s convention in June. However, Charles Fairbanks, who had served as Roosevelt’s vice president, was selected as Hughes’s running mate. The Bull Moose Party chose Roosevelt as its candidate, and though he declined the nomination, he remained on the ballot as such. The Socialist Party, the major third-party player, selected editor and writer Allan L. Benson of New York for president and fellow writer George Kirkpatrick of New Jersey for vice president. The Prohibition Party and Socialist Labor Party also put forth candidates. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today The campaign and election Wilson, who authored the Democratic platform himself, campaigned on the record of his previous administration, particularly stressing the fact that he had maintained a neutral foreign policy in respect to World War I, which had broken out in July 1914. Though as an incumbent he kept with the tradition of “front porch” campaigning, a range of surrogates traveled the country on his behalf, trumpeting his accomplishments through speeches and the distribution of massive quantities of campaign literature. (“He kept us out of war” was a favoured slogan.) His attempts to court African American voters, to whom he had promised a “fair deal” in 1912 before endorsing segregation after attaining office, were nominal at best. He also refused to support a constitutional amendment guaranteeing woman suffrage. Woodrow Wilson reelection pin, 1916.Collection of David J. and Janice L. Frent Hughes waged a highly active campaign, but his wooden presence failed to excite the electorate. He criticized Wilson’s neutrality on the conflict in Europe despite the fact that the public sentiment was decidedly antiwar. The Republican also harped on Wilson’s failed efforts to overthrow the military dictatorship of Victoriano Huerta in Mexico and his acquiescence to Philippine autonomy as spelled out in the Jones Act of 1916. Unlike his opponent, Hughes did endorse woman suffrage. Political record aside, the Republicans did not hesitate to impugn Wilson’s moral fibre; they called attention to his swift remarriage following his first wife’s death in August 1914. Hughes’s failure to galvanize his party was not only due to his tepid personality. He did not court the progressive members of his party who had returned, notably snubbing Hiram Johnson, governor of California, when he campaigned there. Wilson ultimately prevailed, though the election was much closer than anticipated. (It was so close, in fact, that in the event of a Republican victory, Wilson had planned to appoint Hughes secretary of state and then resign along with Marshall so that Hughes could immediately accede to the presidency.) Wilson garnered 49.4 percent of the popular vote and 277 electoral votes. Hughes trailed with 46.2 percent of the popular vote and 254 electoral votes. For all his protestations of neutrality, Wilson was unable to forestall the entry of the United States into World War I and asked Congress for a declaration of war on April 2, 1917. Pres. Woodrow Wilson's second inauguration, March 5, 1917.National Photo Company Collection/Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (digital. id. cph.3a19345) For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1912. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1920.Richard Pallardy Results of the 1916 election The results of the 1916 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1916 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001). Woodrow Wilson Democratic 277 9,129,606 Charles Evans Hughes Republican 254 8,538,221 Allan L. Benson Socialist 589,924 J. Frank Hanly Prohibition 221,030 Arthur E. Reimer Socialist Labor 15,284 Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Woodrow Wilson: Second term as president Wilson prevailed in the 1916 election, becoming the first Democrat to win a second consecutive term since Andrew Jackson. His narrow victory by 277 to 254 electoral votes over Charles Evans Hughes, the nominee of the reunited and resurgent Republicans, was a great political feat. The campaign cry “He… Democratic Party Democratic Party, in the United States, one of the two major political parties, the other being the Republican Party. The Democratic Party has changed significantly during its more than two centuries of existence. During the 19th century the party supported or tolerated slavery, and it… Woodrow Wilson Woodrow Wilson, 28th president of the United States (1913–21), an American scholar and statesman best remembered for his legislative accomplishments and his high-minded idealism. Wilson led his country into World War… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1916 Quick Facts date November 7, 1916 participants Charles Warren Fairbanks Charles Evans Hughes Thomas R. Marshall Woodrow Wilson Allan L. Benson related topics Democratic Party Prohibition Party Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1916 Additional Information More About External Websites United States History - Election of 1916 Maps of World - U.S. Presidential Election 1916 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!