https://www.britannica.com/biography/Charles-Evans-Hughes
Charles Evan Hughes | Biography & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents Charles Evans Hughes United States jurist and statesman Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction & Quick Facts Early life Mayor of New York, Supreme Court justice, and secretary of state Chief justice Charles Evans Hughes United States jurist and statesman Written By: Brian P. Smentkowski Last Updated: Apr 8, 2020 See Article History Charles Evans Hughes, (born April 11, 1862, Glens Falls, New York, U.S.—died August 27, 1948, Osterville, Massachusetts), jurist and statesman who served as an associate justice of the Supreme Court of the United States (1910–16), U.S. secretary of state (1921–25), and 11th chief justice of the United States (1930–41). As chief justice he led the Supreme Court through the great controversy arising over the New Deal legislation of President Franklin D. Roosevelt. Early life Hughes was the son of David Charles Hughes, an immigrant from England (1855) and a Baptist minister, and Mary Catherine Connelly Hughes. He received much of his early education at home, before attending Madison University (now Colgate University) from 1876 to 1878. He then transferred to Brown University, where he graduated in 1881, and he received a law degree with honours from Columbia University School of Law in 1884. After passing the bar he joined Chamberlain, Carter, and Hornblower, a prominent New York City law firm; stress caused him to take a sabbatical in the 1890s, during which time he served as visiting professor at Cornell University Law School (he returned to his legal practice after only two years for financial reasons). Mayor of New York, Supreme Court justice, and secretary of state Hughes gained prominence in 1905 as counsel to New York state legislative committees investigating abuses in the gas and electric power industries and the life insurance business. Reluctant to enter the political arena, Hughes was enticed by the support of Pres. Theodore Roosevelt to run for governor of New York in 1906, and he won a close election over the flamboyant newspaper publisher William Randolph Hearst, becoming the only Republican to win statewide office in New York that year. Hughes served with a profound sense of responsibility, endorsing reform measures, and he was skeptical and terse with regard to politically motivated and populist policies, even in the form of legislation. Because of his preference for merit over favouritism in the appointments process and his rejection of certain popular policy proposals (e.g., equal pay for women), he only narrowly won reelection in 1908. Indeed, his appointment to the U.S. Supreme Court in 1910 by Pres. William Howard Taft arguably spared him the likelihood of losing his bid for a third term in office. Hughes’s first period of service on the Supreme Court was relatively unremarkable. Ideologically moderate, he supported federal governmental responsibility in regulating commerce and favoured First and Fourteenth Amendment rights. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today In the absence of controversy on the bench—and insulated from the split in the Republican Party (i.e., the Bull Moose revolt of 1912)—Hughes emerged as a leading candidate for the Republican presidential nomination in 1916. After receiving the Republican nomination, he resigned from the Supreme Court (he also won the endorsement of the Progressives—the Bull Moose Party). Hughes was narrowly defeated (277 electoral votes to 254), however, by Pres. Woodrow Wilson. He then returned to the private practice of law. In 1921 Hughes was appointed secretary of state by Pres. Warren G. Harding (and following Harding’s death, he continued to serve in that position under Pres. Calvin Coolidge). Hughes negotiated a separate peace treaty with Germany after the U.S. Senate failed to ratify the Treaty of Versailles, supported attempts to secure the entry of the United States into the League of Nations, and planned and then served as chairman of the Washington Conference (1921–22) on disarmament. He also insisted that the United States refrain from recognizing the government of the Soviet Union until it recognized property rights and other elements central to capitalism. In 1925 Hughes resigned as secretary of state and returned to private law practice. Chief justice In 1930 Pres. Herbert Hoover nominated Hughes to become chief justice of the Supreme Court. His nomination elicited opposition within the Senate, however, particularly from Democrats who found that his representation and support of corporate interests appeared at variance with concern for the economic crisis precipitated by the Great Depression; nevertheless, he was confirmed by the Senate 52–26 on February 13. In several cases involving problems raised by the Great Depression, Hughes generally favoured the exercise of federal power. On May 27, 1935 (“Black Monday” to critics of the court), however, there was a flurry of judicial activity regarding the constitutionality of several New Deal proposals; declared unconstitutional by the court were the National Industrial Recovery Act of 1933 (in Schechter Poultry Corporation v. United States), in which Hughes wrote the majority opinion, the Frazier–Lemke Act (which had provided debt relief to farmers), and the Federal Home Owner’s Loan Act of 1933. As the 1930s also marked a period of jurisprudential transition—a movement away from economic questions and toward issues of individual rights—Hughes found himself and the court supporting the doctrine of selective incorporation, under which some elements of the Bill of Rights (e.g., freedom of speech, the press, and religion) were made applicable to the states under the rubric of the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. Reacting to the defeat of much of his New Deal legislation, President Roosevelt devised a plan to reorganize the court. In 1937 Roosevelt proposed to “pack” the Supreme Court by appointing a new (and presumably liberal) justice to offset each sitting justice over the age of 70 who refused to retire; Hughes played a leading role in defeating the plan. Hughes successfully persuaded Justice Owen Roberts to switch his vote in the case of West Coast Hotel Co. v. Parrish (1937), which upheld Washington state’s minimum wage law and also implied that the remainder of New Deal legislation would be considered constitutional, and in a letter to the Senate Judiciary Committee, Hughes attacked Roosevelt’s plan to reorganize the judiciary. On April 12, 1937, Hughes delivered the opinion in National Labor Relations Board v. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corporation, which sustained the right of collective bargaining under the National Labor Relations Act of 1935 (the Wagner Act), and a few weeks later the court upheld various provisions of the Social Security Act. It was widely believed that these pro-New Deal decisions dampened the political pressure to alter the composition of the judiciary and thus contributed to the defeat of the court-packing plan. Hughes retired from the Supreme Court in 1941 at age 79. He was the author of numerous books, including Foreign Relations (1924), The Pathway of Peace (1925), The Supreme Court of the United States (1928), and Pan-American Peace Plans (1929).Brian P. Smentkowski Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: Peace and prosperity …in 1921 Secretary of State Charles Evans Hughes negotiated the first effective arms-reduction agreement in history. On the whole, however, the policies of the United States were narrow and nationalistic. It did not cooperate with the League of Nations. It insisted that Europeans pay their American debts but in 1922… 20th-century international relations: The organization of power in the Pacific Secretary of State Charles Evans Hughes invited the Great Powers to Washington, D.C., to forge a new order for East Asia and the Pacific. A Four-Power Pact negotiated at the conference (November 1921–February 1922) enjoined the United States, Japan, Britain, and France to respect each other’s Pacific island… Theodore Roosevelt: Later years …to support the Republican candidate, Charles Evans Hughes, who lost by a narrow margin. After the United States entered the war his anger at Wilson boiled over when his offer to lead a division to France was rejected. His four sons served in combat; two were wounded, and the youngest,… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Charles Evans Hughes Quick Facts View Media Page born April 11, 1862 Glens Falls, New York died August 27, 1948 (aged 86) Osterville, Massachusetts title / office supreme court, United States (1930-1941) Supreme Court of the United States, United States (1930-1941) secretary of state, United States (1921-1925) secretary of state, United States (1921-1925) Supreme Court of the United States, United States (1910-1916) supreme court, United States (1910-1916) governor, New York (1907-1910) political affiliation Republican Party role in New Deal Charles Evans Hughes Additional Information More About Additional Reading Quotes External Websites New York State Hall of Governors - Biography of Charles Evans Hughes U.S. Department of State - Office of the Historian - Biography of Charles Evans Hughes Oyez - Biography of Charles Evans Hughes United States History - Biography of Charles Evans Hughes Spartacus Educational - Biography of Charles Evans Hughes Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Charles Evans Hughes - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!