https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1920
United States presidential election of 1920 | History, Candidates, & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1920 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction Background and candidates Campaign and election Results of the 1920 election United States presidential election of 1920 United States government Written By: John M. Cunningham See Article History United States presidential election of 1920, American presidential election, held on November 2, 1920, in which Republican Warren G. Harding defeated Democrat James M. Cox in a landslide. American presidential election, 1920Results of the American presidential election, 1920 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes Warren G. Harding Republican 404 16,147,249 James M. Cox Democratic 127 9,140,864 Eugene V. Debs Socialist 897,704 Parley P. Christensen Farmer-Labor 265,229 Aaron S. Watkins Prohibition 182,711 James E. Ferguson American 48,098 William W. Cox Socialist Labor 30,594 Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the Office of the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001).Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Background and candidates Well before the campaign was officially under way, it became apparent that the 1920 election would be a referendum on the policies of Pres. Woodrow Wilson. Wilson’s second term as president had attracted much criticism, beginning with the reversal of his 1916 campaign promise to keep the country out of what would later become known as World War I. His failure to involve congressional voices in his negotiation of the Treaty of Versailles (1919), the postwar peace settlement, alienated members of both parties. His subsequent refusal to compromise with Republicans who objected to the League of Nations , which the treaty established, led to the collapse of the treaty’s ratification and stoked a contentious debate on the subject of internationalism. Furthermore, in 1919–20 the Wilson administration raised the ire of progressives by siding against labour in several high-profile strikes and leading mass deportations of suspected radicals. In the state primary elections the Republicans fielded a number of promising candidates, including Gen. Leonard Wood, Illinois Gov. Frank O. Lowden, and California Sen. Hiram Johnson. None emerged with enough delegates to capture the nomination, however, and the scene therefore shifted to the Republican National Convention, held in Chicago in early June. When the convention deadlocked after several rounds of balloting, party leaders—supposedly in a smoke-filled room at the Blackstone Hotel—turned to the genial Harding, an Ohio senator, as a compromise candidate. Harding eventually landed the nomination, and Massachusetts Gov. Calvin Coolidge , who had gained prominence for his role in quashing the Boston Police Strike (1919), was selected as his running mate. Harding, Warren G.Warren G. Harding.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (neg no. LC-USZ62-91485) The Democrats also entered their convention with uncertainty, in part because Wilson—secretly hoping, despite his unpopularity and failing health, to win a third nomination—had not appointed a standard bearer. Wilson’s reluctance to abandon office was particularly crippling to his son-in-law, Treasury Secretary William G. McAdoo, who was viewed as an early favourite but could not publicly seek the nomination. Meeting in San Francisco in late June–early July, convention delegates considered McAdoo and Attorney General A. Mitchell Palmer before ultimately deciding on James M. Cox, the governor of Ohio. The vice presidential nominee was Franklin D. Roosevelt , then age 38, who resigned his post as the assistant secretary of the Navy to focus on the campaign. Cox, James M.James M. Cox, c. 1920.U.S. National Archives and Records Administration Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Campaign and election Harding ran a “front porch” campaign from his home in Marion, Ohio, during which he emphasized conservatism as the guiding principle of his candidacy. In addition to advocating for lower taxes and limited immigration, he famously issued a call for a return to “normalcy” amid the social and political upheavals of the time. Harding, in line with the Republican Party platform, firmly rejected membership in the League of Nations. The platform argued that it was possible to preserve peace “without the compromise of national independence, without depriving the people of the United States in advance of the right to determine for themselves what is just and fair when the occasion arises, and without involving them as participants and not as peacemakers in a multitude of quarrels, the merits of which they are unable to judge.” It also was highly critical of both the war effort and the peace negotiations, charging that the previous Democratic administration had been “unprepared” either for the war or for winning the peace. Harding, Warren G.: Campaign buttonButton from Warren G. Harding's 1920 presidential campaign.Americana/Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Cox and Roosevelt, meanwhile, toured the country to promote the Democratic platform, which officially endorsed the League of Nations as well as a bevy of progressive causes. The Democrats’ political and financial organization was in disarray, however, and they experienced internal dissension over Prohibition and other issues. More significantly, perhaps, the Democratic platform was simply out of step with the war-weary, disillusioned mood of the country in 1920. In contrast to the Republicans, the Democratic platform advocated membership in the League of Nations “as the surest, if not the only, practicable means of maintaining the permanent peace of the world and terminating the insufferable burden of great military and naval establishments.” Late attempts by Cox to paint Harding as corrupt and Harding voters as traitorous were unsuccessful. To the surprise of few, Harding won the election handily, tallying 404 electoral votes to Cox’s 127. The margin in the popular vote was 60.3 percent to 34.1 percent, which remains the widest differential in history. (Several minor candidates—most prominently the Socialist Eugene V. Debs, who was imprisoned at the time—collected the remainder of votes.) Republicans interpreted the resounding victory as a mandate to reverse Wilson’s progressive policies at home and his internationalism abroad. For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1916. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1924. John M. Cunningham Results of the 1920 election The results of the 1920 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1920 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the Office of the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001). Warren G. Harding Republican 404 16,147,249 James M. Cox Democratic 127 9,140,864 Eugene V. Debs Socialist 897,704 Parley P. Christensen Farmer-Labor 265,229 Aaron S. Watkins Prohibition 182,711 James E. Ferguson American 48,098 William W. Cox Socialist Labor 30,594 Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: The fight over the treaty and the election of 1920 Harding swamped Cox (see U.S. presidential election of 1920), and his victory ended all hopes for U.S. membership. In his inaugural Harding announced that the United States would not be entangled in European affairs; he emphasized this determination by concluding a separate peace with Germany in 1921.… Woodrow Wilson: Second term as president In the 1920 election Wilson called for “a great and solemn referendum” on the treaty and the League of Nations and entertained fantasies about running on that issue himself. Edith Wilson and his closest friends quietly scotched those notions. Instead, the Democrats nominated James M. Cox, the… Warren G. Harding: Political career When the 1920 Republican Convention deadlocked over its selection of a presidential nominee, party leaders turned—supposedly in a smoke-filled room in Chicago’s Blackstone Hotel—to the handsome, genial Ohioan as a compromise candidate. Paired with vice presidential candidate Calvin Coolidge, Harding eschewed a speaking tour in favour of… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1920 Quick Facts date November 2, 1920 participants Calvin Coolidge James M. Cox Eugene V. Debs Warren G. Harding Franklin D. Roosevelt related topics Democratic Party Farmer–Labor Party Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1920 Additional Information More About External Websites United States History - Election of 1920: Republican and the Return to Normalcy Maps of World - United States Presidential Election of 1920 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!