https://www.britannica.com/biography/James-M-Cox
James M. Cox | American politician and publisher | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 James M. Cox American politician and publisher Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter James M. Cox American politician and publisher Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Mar 27, 2020 See Article History Alternative Title: James Middleton Cox James M. Cox, in full James Middleton Cox, (born March 31, 1870, Jacksonburg, Ohio, U.S.—died July 15, 1957, Dayton, Ohio), American newspaper publisher and reformist governor of Ohio who ran unsuccessfully for U.S. president on the Democratic ticket in 1920. After spending his early years as a country schoolteacher, Cox worked as a reporter on The Cincinnati Enquirer. In 1898 he bought the Dayton News and in 1903 the Springfield Daily News. Entering Democratic politics, he early became identified with the programs of party leader Woodrow Wilson, future U.S. president. Cox served in the U.S. House of Representatives (1909–13) and as governor of Ohio (1913–15, 1917–21), where he introduced workmen’s compensation, minimum wage, and the initiative and referendum legislation. Cox was nominated for president by the Democrats in 1920, but he was defeated in a landslide in which the Republicans not only recaptured the presidency but won the largest number of seats in the U.S. House of Representatives they had ever held. After 1920 Cox retired from public life and devoted himself to his business interests. This article was most recently revised and updated by Amy Tikkanen, Corrections Manager. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States presidential election of 1920 Harding defeated Democrat James M. Cox in a landslide.… The Atlanta Journal-Constitution …the paper was purchased by James Middleton Cox, who already owned the evening Atlanta Journal (founded in 1883) and other papers. The Constitution continued its nonsensational coverage of local, national, and international news and its informed editorial comment. For many years a merged paper, the Atlanta Journal-Constitution, was published on… Ohio Ohio, constituent state of the United States of America, on the northeastern edge of the Midwest region. Lake Erie lies on the north, Pennsylvania on the east, West Virginia and Kentucky on the southeast and south, Indiana on the west, and Michigan on the northwest. Ohio ranks 34th in terms of… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. James M. Cox Quick Facts View Media Page born March 31, 1870 Jacksonburg, Ohio died July 15, 1957 (aged 87) Dayton, Ohio title / office house of representatives, United States (1909-1913) political affiliation Democratic Party James M. Cox Additional Information More About External Websites Ohio History Central - Biography of James M. Cox Biographical Directory of the United States Congress - Biography of James Middleton Cox Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!