https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1924
United States presidential election of 1924 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1924 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction The candidates The campaign Results of the 1924 election United States presidential election of 1924 United States government Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History United States presidential election of 1924, American presidential election held on November 4, 1924, in which Republican Calvin Coolidge defeated Democrat John W. Davis. Running as the Progressive Party candidate, Robert M. La Follette captured some one-sixth of the popular vote. American presidential election, 1924Results of the American presidential election, 1924 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes Calvin Coolidge Republican 382 15,725,016 John W. Davis Democratic 136 8,386,503 Robert M. La Follette Progressive 13 4,822,856 Herman P. Faris Prohibition 57,520 Frank T. Johns Socialist Labor 36,428 William Z. Foster Communist 36,386 Gilbert O. Nations American 23,967 Source: Office of the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The candidates Upon the unexpected death of Pres. Warren G. Harding in 1923, Coolidge ascended to the presidency. He had inherited an administration mired in scandal, including the Teapot Dome Scandal, in which federal oil reserves had been secretly leased by the secretary of the interior. Cautiously, quietly, and skillfully, Coolidge rooted out the perpetrators and restored integrity to the executive branch, convincing the American people that the presidency was once again in the hands of someone they could trust. As such, in June, when the Republican convention met in Cleveland, Ohio, Coolidge was easily nominated as the Republican candidate for the election of 1924, while La Follette finished a distant second. Governor Frank Lowden of Illinois was nominated as Coolidge’s running mate, but he refused to accept; the vice presidential slot eventually went to the World War I general Charles G. Dawes. The Republican platform focused on the continuation of Coolidge’s strong record in boosting the economy and maintaining honesty in government. Coolidge, CalvinCalvin Coolidge.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The Democrats had made impressive gains in the 1922 Congressional midterm elections, and they hoped that their success would extend to the presidency in light of the Harding administration’s scandals. However, a persistent rift between rural and urban Democrats would prevent the party from gaining the momentum it needed. Rural Democrats supported William Gibbs McAdoo, a progressive who had been Pres. Woodrow Wilson’s secretary of the treasury and was Wilson’s son-in-law. Among McAdoo’s supporters were those associated with the Ku Klux Klan (KKK); on the issue of whether the KKK’s activities should be censured, McAdoo himself remained neutral. Urban Democrats supported New York Gov. Alfred E. Smith, who was backed by states with big electoral votes. At the Democratic convention, which opened at the end of June in New York City, a deadlock developed in the balloting. Neither candidate was able to secure the two-thirds majority necessary to earn the nomination, partly because of Catholic and Protestant tension. After two weeks of bickering, McAdoo and Smith dropped out of the race, and John W. Davis was nominated on the 103rd ballot. The vice presidential contest was much easier, with Charles W. Bryan, brother of William Jennings Bryan and governor of Nebraska, nominated on the first ballot. The Democratic platform condemned child labour and demanded prosecution of monopolies and federal aid for education. There was a vote on whether the KKK should be denounced by name in the platform, though this vote narrowly failed. Davis, John W.John W. DavisCourtesy of the Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. In July the Progressive Party, made up of forces dissatisfied with the conservative attitudes and programs of the Democrats and Republicans, held a convention of its own. The Progressive Party included liberals, agrarians, Republican progressives, socialists, and labour representatives. It chose as its presidential candidate Sen. Robert M. La Follette of Wisconsin, who in 1911 had organized what became an independent party formally called the Progressive but generally known as the Bull Moose Party. The 1924 Progressives pledged a “housecleaning” of executive departments, public control of natural resources, public ownership of railways, and tax reduction. Robert M. La Follette.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today The campaign The 1924 campaign was notable for its use of radio broadcasting of the political conventions and of party advertisements. The rising art of photojournalism was also employed to record campaign actions. Coolidge did not travel much during his campaign and gave few speeches. Despite this, his rivals had little chance against him. Davis and Bryan failed to rally enough support within their divided party, and the Progressive Party suffered from lack of press coverage and funds. Coolidge won 54 percent of the popular vote (to Davis’s 29 percent and La Follette’s 17 percent), and he received more electoral votes, 382, than the other two candidates combined—136 for Davis, and just 13 for La Follette. Button from Calvin Coolidge's 1924 U.S. presidential campaign.Americana/Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1920. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1928. Results of the 1924 election The results of the 1924 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1924 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes Source: Office of the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives. Calvin Coolidge Republican 382 15,725,016 John W. Davis Democratic 136 8,386,503 Robert M. La Follette Progressive 13 4,822,856 Herman P. Faris Prohibition 57,520 Frank T. Johns Socialist Labor 36,428 William Z. Foster Communist 36,386 Gilbert O. Nations American 23,967 This article was most recently revised and updated by Amy Tikkanen, Corrections Manager. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: Peace and prosperity Davis in the election of 1924. Even though an independent campaign by Senator Robert M. La Follette of Wisconsin drew off insurgent Republicans, Coolidge received more popular, and electoral, votes than his opponents combined.… Calvin Coolidge: Presidency At the Republican convention in 1924 Coolidge was nominated virtually without opposition. Running on the slogan “Keep Cool with Coolidge,” he won a landslide victory over conservative Democrat John W. Davis and Progressive Party candidate Robert La Follette, gaining about 54 percent of the popular vote to Davis’s 29 percent… Republican Party Republican Party, in the United States, one of the two major political parties, the other being the Democratic Party. During the 19th century the Republican Party stood against the extension of slavery to the country’s new territories and, ultimately, for slavery’s complete abolition. During the… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1924 Quick Facts date November 4, 1924 participants Calvin Coolidge John W. Davis Charles G. Dawes William Z. Foster Robert M. La Follette Charles W. Bryan related topics Communist Party of the United States of America Democratic Party Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1924 Additional Information More About External Websites United States History - Election of 1924 Maps of World - U.S. Presidential Election 1924 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!