https://www.britannica.com/biography/Calvin-Coolidge
Calvin Coolidge | Biography, Facts, & Quotes | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents Calvin Coolidge president of United States Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction & Quick Facts Early life and career Presidency Life after the presidency Cabinet of Pres. Calvin Coolidge Calvin Coolidge president of United States Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Apr 17, 2020 See Article History Alternative Title: John Calvin Coolidge Calvin Coolidge, in full John Calvin Coolidge, (born July 4, 1872, Plymouth, Vermont, U.S. —died January 5, 1933, Northampton, Massachusetts ), 30th president of the United States (1923–29). Coolidge acceded to the presidency after the death in office of Warren G. Harding, just as the Harding scandals were coming to light. He restored integrity to the executive branch of the federal government while continuing the conservative pro-business policies of his predecessor. Key events in the life of Calvin Coolidge.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Top Questions Why is Calvin Coolidge important? Calvin Coolidge was the 30th president of the United States (1923–29). He acceded to the presidency after the death in office of Warren G. Harding, just as the Harding scandals were coming to light. He restored integrity to the executive branch of the federal government while continuing the conservative pro-business policies of his predecessor. What was Calvin Coolidge’s family like? Calvin Coolidge was the only son of John Calvin and Victoria Moor Coolidge. His father was a storekeeper, and his mother cultivated in him a love of nature and books. In 1905 he married Grace Anna Goodhue, a teacher at the Clarke Institute for the Deaf, with whom he had two sons. What was Calvin Coolidge’s occupation? Calvin Coolidge worked as a lawyer in Northampton, Massachusetts. A Republican, he entered politics as a city councilman in Northampton in 1898 and served in the Massachusetts state government before being elected governor in 1918. He was U.S. vice president under Warren G. Harding and assumed the presidency upon Harding’s death. How did Calvin Coolidge become famous? Calvin Coolidge captured national attention in 1919 during a strike by the Boston police. He refused to reinstate police officers who had been fired for striking, saying: “There is no right to strike against the public safety by anybody, anywhere, any time.” This led to Coolidge becoming Harding’s vice presidential running mate in 1920. What was Calvin Coolidge’s legacy? Calvin Coolidge inherited an administration mired in scandal. A model of personal rectitude, he rooted out the perpetrators and restored American trust in the executive branch. However, the essence of his presidency was its noninterference in and bolstering of American business and industry. These policies did nothing to avert the Great Depression, which followed. Early life and career Coolidge was the only son of John Calvin Coolidge and Victoria Moor Coolidge. His father, whose forebears had immigrated to America about 1630, was a storekeeper who instilled in his son the New England Puritan virtues—honesty, industry, thrift, taciturnity, and piety—while his mother cultivated in him a love of nature and books. A graduate of Amherst College, Coolidge began practicing law in 1897. In 1905 he married Grace Anna Goodhue, a teacher in the Clarke Institute for the Deaf, with whom he had two sons. Coolidge, CalvinCalvin Coolidge, age seven.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Coolidge, Calvin; Coolidge familyThe Calvin Coolidge family: (from left) John, Calvin, Calvin, Jr., and Grace.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. A Republican, Coolidge entered politics as a city councilman in Northampton, Massachusetts, in 1898. He was elected mayor of Northampton in 1909 and then served in the Massachusetts state government as senator (1911–15) and lieutenant governor (1915–18). Elected governor in 1918, Coolidge captured national attention the following year when he called out the state guard to quell violence and disorder resulting from a strike by the Boston police, who had formed a labour union to press their demands for better pay and working conditions. When labour leaders called on him to support their demands for reinstatement of police officers who had been fired for striking, Coolidge refused, summing up his reasoning in a single sentence that reverberated throughout the country: “There is no right to strike against the public safety by anybody, anywhere, any time.” Calvin Coolidge, c. 1920.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. That statement—combined with Coolidge’s strong stand against the Boston police at a time when many Americans viewed organized labour as too radical—catapulted Coolidge onto the Republican Party’s ticket in 1920 as Harding’s vice-presidential running mate. The personality of the taciturn Coolidge could not have provided a greater contrast to that of the gregarious Harding. In terms of policy, however, Harding and Coolidge were nearly identical. Both were members of the Old Guard Republicans, that conservative segment of the party that had remained with Pres. William Howard Taft in the 1912 election when Theodore Roosevelt left to form the Bull Moose Party. Promising the American people a “return to normalcy,” Harding and Coolidge achieved the greatest popular vote margin in presidential elections to that time, crushing the Democratic ticket of James Cox and Franklin Delano Roosevelt by 60 to 34 percent. The electoral vote was equally one-sided: 404 to 127. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Presidency Acceding to the presidency upon Harding’s unexpected death (August 2, 1923), Coolidge took the oath of office from his father, a notary public, by the light of a kerosene lamp at 2:47 am on August 3 at the family home in Plymouth, Vermont. He inherited an administration mired in scandal. Cautiously, quietly, and skillfully, Coolidge rooted out the perpetrators and restored integrity to the executive branch. A model of personal rectitude himself, Coolidge convinced the American people that the presidency was once again in the hands of someone they could trust. The change of ambience in the White House did not miss the keen eye of Alice Roosevelt Longworth, daughter of Pres. Theodore Roosevelt, who said that the new White House was “as different as a New England front parlor is from a backroom in a speakeasy.” At the Republican convention in 1924 Coolidge was nominated virtually without opposition. Running on the slogan “Keep Cool with Coolidge,” he won a landslide victory over conservative Democrat John W. Davis and Progressive Party candidate Robert La Follette, gaining about 54 percent of the popular vote to Davis’s 29 percent and La Follette’s nearly 17 percent; in the electoral college Coolidge received 382 votes to Davis’s 136 and La Follette’s 13. Coolidge’s inaugural address, the first inaugural address to be broadcast on national radio, focused principally on his vision of the role of the United States in the world. Button from Calvin Coolidge's 1924 U.S. presidential campaign.Americana/Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Coolidge, CalvinCalvin Coolidge taking the oath of office as U.S. president, 1925.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Coolidge was famous for being a man of few but well-chosen words. Despite his reputation, “Silent Cal,” as he was called, had a keen sense of humour, and he could be talkative in private family settings. His wit was displayed in a characteristic exchange with a Washington, D.C., hostess, who told him, “You must talk to me, Mr. President. I made a bet today that I could get more than two words out of you.” Coolidge replied, “You lose.” Coolidge captured the prevailing sentiment of the American people in the 1920s when he said, “The chief business of the American people is business.” The essence of the Coolidge presidency was its noninterference in and bolstering of American business and industry. Government regulatory agencies, such as the Federal Trade Commission, now were staffed by people who sought to assist business expansion rather than to police business practices. Most Americans, identifying their own prosperity with the growth of corporate profits, welcomed this reversal of progressive reforms. They generally agreed with the assessment of Oliver Wendell Holmes, associate justice of the Supreme Court: “While I don’t expect anything very astonishing from [Coolidge] I don’t want anything very astonishing.” The New York Stock Exchange on an active trading day in the late 1920s.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Key to the conservative, pro-business focus of the Coolidge administration was Secretary of the Treasury Andrew Mellon. A multimillionaire himself, Mellon believed strongly that reducing taxes for the rich was the best way to expand the nation’s wealth. He held that, as the rich invested funds that otherwise would have been taken away in taxes, new businesses would form and older enterprises would expand and that the result would be more jobs and greater national production. Under the leadership of Coolidge and Mellon, Congress sharply reduced income taxes and estate taxes. One form of business enterprise, however, received almost no help from the Coolidge administration: agriculture. Farmers constituted the one group of producers clearly not participating in the decade’s prosperity. Twice Congress passed the McNary-Haugen bill, calling for the federal government to purchase surplus crops. Twice (1927 and 1928) Coolidge vetoed it, and the economic woes of American farmers persisted well into the following decade. Coolidge also vetoed a bill offering a bonus to veterans of World War I; Congress overrode that veto in 1924. Reflecting its focus on internal economic growth, the Coolidge administration showed little interest in events outside the nation’s borders. Coolidge adamantly opposed U.S. membership in the League of Nations, though he did increase unofficial American involvement in the international organization. Ironically for such an inward-looking administration, two of its members received the Nobel Prize for Peace. In 1925, Vice President Charles G. Dawes won the prize for his program to help Germany meet its war debt obligations, and Secretary of State Frank B. Kellogg won it in 1929 for his role in negotiating the Kellogg-Briand Pact, a multinational agreement renouncing war as an instrument of national policy. Kellogg-Briand PactU.S. Pres. Calvin Coolidge (seated left) signing the Kellogg-Briand Pact, January 1929, Washington, D.C.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (LC-DIG-hec-35222) Life after the presidency In 1928, announcing, “I do not choose to run,” Coolidge turned his back on what surely would have been another election victory and instead retired to Northampton. There he wrote a syndicated newspaper column, several magazine articles, and his autobiography (1929). And there, a little less than four years after leaving the White House, he died of a heart attack. After his death, as the country suffered through the worst economic crisis in its history, many came to view the Coolidge era as a time of inaction and complacency in the face of looming disaster. Although Coolidge’s personality continued to be the butt of jokes—upon hearing that Coolidge was dead, the writer Dorothy Parker quipped, “How can they tell?”—he was fondly remembered for his quiet New England virtues and for the renewed dignity and respect he brought to his office. Coolidge, CalvinCalvin Coolidge.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Coolidge was survived by first lady Grace Coolidge, a woman whose outgoing personality contrasted sharply with that of her tight-lipped spouse. She lived another 24 years, during which time she devoted herself to the needs of the hearing-impaired. Coolidge, Calvin; Coolidge, GraceCalvin and Grace Coolidge.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Cabinet of Pres. Calvin Coolidge The table provides a list of cabinet members in the administration of Pres. Calvin Coolidge. Cabinet of President Calvin Coolidge August 3, 1923–March 3, 1925 (Term 1) State Charles Evans Hughes Treasury Andrew W. Mellon War John Wingate Weeks Navy Edwin Denby Curtis Dwight Wilbur (from March 18, 1924) Attorney General Harry Micajah Daugherty Harlan Fiske Stone (from April 9, 1924) Interior Hubert Work Agriculture Henry Cantwell Wallace Howard Mason Gore (from November 21, 1924) Commerce Herbert Hoover Labor James John Davis March 4, 1925–March 3, 1929 (Term 2) State Frank B. Kellogg Treasury Andrew W. Mellon War John Wingate Weeks Dwight F. Davis (from October 14, 1925) Navy Curtis Dwight Wilbur Attorney General John Garibaldi Sargent Interior Hubert Work Roy Owen West (from January 21, 1929) Agriculture William Marion Jardine Commerce Herbert Hoover William Fairfield Whiting (from December 11, 1928) Labor James John Davis This article was most recently revised and updated by Adam Augustyn, Managing Editor, Reference Content. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: Peace and prosperity Calvin Coolidge, Harding’s vice president and successor, was a taciturn, parsimonious New Englander who restored honesty to government. His administration suffered none of the stigma of the Harding scandals, and Coolidge, thanks to a buoyant economy and a divided Democratic Party, easily defeated the conservative… civil service: Civil servants and unions Calvin Coolidge: “There is no right to strike against the public safety by anybody, anywhere, at any time.” Although federal employees are still forbidden to strike, a rule illustrated by the dismissal of striking air traffic controllers in 1981, consultation has increased, and in many… Herbert Hoover Calvin Coolidge, Hoover spearheaded efforts that ultimately led to construction of Hoover Dam and the St. Lawrence Seaway. He illustrated his continuing dedication to humanitarian rescue when he supervised relief efforts during and after the Mississippi River flood of 1927.… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Calvin Coolidge Quick Facts View Media Page born July 4, 1872 Plymouth, Vermont died January 5, 1933 (aged 60) Northampton, Massachusetts title / office presidency of the United States of America, United States (1923-1929) vice president of the United States of America, United States (1921-1923) governor, Massachusetts (1919-1920) political affiliation Republican Party notable family members spouse Grace Coolidge related facts and data Woodrow Wilson - Facts Calvin Coolidge Additional Information More About Additional Reading Quotes External Websites United States Senate - Calvin Coolidge, 29th Vice President (1921-1923) The White House - Biography of Calvin Coolidge Official Site of Calvin Coolidge Presidential Foundation Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Calvin Coolidge - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) Calvin Coolidge - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!