https://www.britannica.com/biography/John-W-Davis
John W. Davis | American politician | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 John W. Davis American politician Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter John W. Davis American politician Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Apr 9, 2020 See Article History Alternative Title: John William Davis John W. Davis, in full John William Davis, (born April 13, 1873, Clarksburg, W.Va., U.S.—died March 24, 1955, Charleston, S.C.), conservative Democratic politician who was his party’s unsuccessful candidate for the presidency of the United States in 1924. Davis was admitted to the Virginia bar in 1895 but returned to his birthplace two years later. In 1899 he was elected to the West Virginia House of Delegates, and in 1910 he was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives. From 1913 to 1918 he served as solicitor general of the United States, and he was one of Pres. Woodrow Wilson’s advisers at the Paris Peace Conference following World War I (1919). He also served as ambassador to Great Britain (1918–21), after which he accepted a partnership in a New York law firm. At the Democratic National Convention of 1924, neither the supporters of New York Gov. Alfred E. Smith nor those of the more traditional William G. McAdoo would yield their votes in order to settle on a presidential candidate. After 102 ballots the party compromised by choosing Davis, who went down to overwhelming defeat that fall before Republican Calvin Coolidge. Davis, John W.John W. Davis.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Returning to private law practice, Davis appeared in many cases before the U.S. Supreme Court. The capstone of his career was his victory in 1952 when the Supreme Court ruled that Pres. Harry S. Truman had exceeded his constitutional powers in seizing control of the nation’s steel mills. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today This article was most recently revised and updated by Amy Tikkanen, Corrections Manager. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: Peace and prosperity …easily defeated the conservative Democrat John W. Davis in the election of 1924. Even though an independent campaign by Senator Robert M. La Follette of Wisconsin drew off insurgent Republicans, Coolidge received more popular, and electoral, votes than his opponents combined.… Democratic Party: History …party’s presidential candidate in 1924, John W. Davis, needed more than 100 ballots to secure the nomination.) Jackson easily won reelection in 1832, but his various opponents—who derisively referred to him as “King Andrew”—joined with former National Republicans to form the Whig Party, named for the English political faction that… United States presidential election of 1924 Coolidge defeated Democrat John W. Davis. Running as the Progressive Party candidate, Robert M. La Follette captured some one-sixth of the popular vote.… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. John W. Davis Quick Facts View Media Page born April 13, 1873 Clarksburg, West Virginia died March 24, 1955 (aged 81) Charleston, South Carolina title / office house of representatives, United States (1911-1913) political affiliation Democratic Party role in Paris Peace Conference John W. Davis Additional Information More About External Websites Biographical Directory of the United States Congress - Biography of John William Davis Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. John W. Davis - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!