https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Seal_of_the_United_States_Supreme_Court.svg
File:Seal of the United States Supreme Court.svg - Wikipedia
File:Seal of the United States Supreme Court.svg From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search File File history File usage Global file usage Metadata Size of this PNG preview of this SVG file: 600 × 600 pixels. Other resolutions: 240 × 240 pixels | 480 × 480 pixels | 768 × 768 pixels | 1,024 × 1,024 pixels | 720 × 720 pixels. Original file ‎(SVG file, nominally 720 × 720 pixels, file size: 676 KB) This is a file from the Wikimedia Commons. Information from its description page there is shown below. Commons is a freely licensed media file repository. You can help. Summary DescriptionSeal of the United States Supreme Court.svg Deutsch: Siegel des Obersten Gerichtshofes der Vereinigten Staaten English: Seal of the Supreme Court of the United States Español: Sello de la Corte Suprema de los Estados Unidos Македонски: Печат на Врховниот суд на Соединетите Американски Држави Date 21 January 2008 Source Own work based on: Seal of the United States Supreme Court.png by Optimager. This SVG seal includes elements that have been taken or adapted from this seal: US-GreatSeal-Obverse.svg (by Ssolbergj). Author !Original: OptimagerVector: Ipankonin SVG development The source code of this SVG is valid. This seal was created with Inkscape. This SVG seal uses the path text method. Licensing Public domainPublic domainfalsefalse This image is a work of the Supreme Court of the United States, taken or made as part of that person's official duties. As a work of the U.S. federal government, the image is in the public domain in the United States. This image shows a flag, a coat of arms, a seal or some other official insignia. The use of such symbols is restricted in many countries. These restrictions are independent of the copyright status. Captions English Add a one-line explanation of what this file represents Items portrayed in this file depicts symbol of Supreme Court of the United States File history Click on a date/time to view the file as it appeared at that time. Date/Time Thumbnail Dimensions User Comment current 23:28, 5 January 2012 720 × 720 (676 KB) Ssolbergj centered 21:28, 2 January 2012 720 × 720 (686 KB) Ssolbergj Per http://www.supremecourt.gov/ 21:22, 4 May 2011 720 × 720 (597 KB) Fry1989 tail feathers 20:50, 7 August 2009 720 × 720 (594 KB) Hydrox Remove the unnecessary crossing path from the top of the wreath. 06:06, 23 January 2008 720 × 720 (583 KB) Ipankonin completely tri-tone 06:00, 23 January 2008 720 × 720 (583 KB) Ipankonin dark tail 10:15, 21 January 2008 720 × 720 (587 KB) Ipankonin working version 01:31, 24 March 2007 341 × 341 (1.06 MB) Jesin This image is a vectorized version of Image:Seal_of_the_United_States_Supreme_Court.png. I took it from a US Government work, but used Inkscape to vectorize it myself, so I'm not sure if it's PD-self or PD-US Gov. I guessed. File usage More than 100 pages use this file. The following list shows the first 100 pages that use this file only. A full list is available. Adair v. United States Antonin Scalia Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States Boy Scouts of America v. Dale Brown v. Board of Education Brushaber v. Union Pacific Railroad Co. Buchanan v. Warley Bush v. Gore Byron White Cabinet of the United States Chambers v. Florida Charles Evans Hughes Chief Justice of the United States Chisholm v. Georgia Civil Rights Cases Cohens v. Virginia Connecticut General Life Insurance Co. v. Johnson Constitution of the United States Dartmouth College v. Woodward David Souter Dennis v. United States Dred Scott v. Sandford Earl Warren Easley v. Cromartie Edwards v. Aguillard Eisenhower Doctrine Eldred v. Ashcroft Ex parte Milligan Fletcher v. Peck Foreign policy of the United States Gibbons v. Ogden Gideon v. Wainwright Green Party of the United States Griswold v. Connecticut Guinn v. United States Heart of Atlanta Motel, Inc. v. United States Hugo Black Hunt v. Cromartie John Paul Stevens Jurisdiction Lemon v. Kurtzman Libertarian Party (United States) List of federal agencies in the United States List of political parties in the United States Lists of United States Supreme Court cases Lucius Quintus Cincinnatus Lamar Marbury v. Madison Martin v. Hunter's Lessee McCulloch v. Maryland Miller v. California Milliken v. Bradley Minersville School District v. Gobitis Miranda v. Arizona Mootness Muller v. Oregon Munn v. Illinois NAACP v. Alabama North Korea–United States relations Party leaders of the United States Senate Personal jurisdiction Planned Parenthood v. Casey Plessy v. Ferguson Political question Politics of the United States Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co. President of the United States President pro tempore of the United States Senate R.A.V. v. City of St. Paul Regents of the Univ. of Cal. v. Bakke Ripeness Robert H. Jackson Roe v. Wade Romer v. Evans Ruth Bader Ginsburg Salmon P. Chase Sandra Day O'Connor Santa Clara County v. Southern Pacific Railroad Co. Schenck v. United States Slaughter-House Cases Solicitor General of the United States Speaker of the United States House of Representatives Standing (law) State court (United States) State legislature (United States) Stephen Breyer Supreme Court of the United States Swann v. Charlotte-Mecklenburg Board of Education Taxation in the United States Thurgood Marshall United States Congress United States Electoral College United States courts of appeals United States district court United States v. E. C. Knight Co. United States v. Klein United States v. The Amistad Vice President of the United States Wallace v. Jaffree Wesberry v. Sanders West Virginia State Board of Education v. Barnette Global file usage The following other wikis use this file: Usage on ar.wikipedia.org هندرسون ضد الولايات المتحدة المحكمة العليا للولايات المتحدة بوابة:القانون/محكمة مختارة بوابة:القانون/محكمة مختارة/2 جون روبرتس ميلفيل فولر قالب:رؤساء قضاة الولايات المتحدة أوليفر إلسوورث جون روتليدج (محامي) موريسون ويت سلمون بورتلاند تشيس روجر بروك تاني إدوارد دوغلاس وايت فريدريك مور فينسون إيرل وارين هارلان فيسك ستون وليام رينكويست وارين إيرل برغر 2013 في العلوم ترتيب الأسبقية للولايات المتحدة رئيس المحكمة العليا للولايات المتحدة Usage on arz.wikipedia.org قالب:Infobox high court قالب:Infobox high court/doc Usage on ast.wikipedia.org William Howard Taft Corte Suprema de los Estaos Xuníos Usage on as.wikipedia.org সাঁচ:Infobox high court সাঁচ:Infobox high court/doc সাঁচ:Infobox court case/images সাঁচ:Infobox court case/images/doc Usage on az.wikipedia.org Amerika Birləşmiş Ştatları prezidentlərinin siyahısı Şablon:ABŞ siyasəti ABŞ federal hökuməti ABŞ Ali Məhkəməsi Usage on be.wikipedia.org Уільям Говард Тафт Джон Джэй Шаблон:Галоўныя суддзі ЗША Вярхоўны Суд ЗША Чарльз Эванс Х’юз Роджэр Брук Тані Сэман Портленд Чэйз Брэт Кавана Джон Ратледж Usage on bn.wikipedia.org টেমপ্লেট:তথ্যছক উচ্চ আদালত টেমপ্লেট:তথ্যছক উচ্চ আদালত/নথি টেমপ্লেট:তথ্যছক আদালত মামলা/চিত্র টেমপ্লেট:তথ্যছক আদালত মামলা/চিত্র/নথি Usage on bs.wikipedia.org Vrhovni sud Sjedinjenih Američkih Država Šablon:Infokutija vrhovni sud Šablon:Infokutija vrhovni sud/dok Usage on ca.wikipedia.org Tribunal Suprem dels Estats Units View more global usage of this file. Metadata This file contains additional information, probably added from the digital camera or scanner used to create or digitize it. If the file has been modified from its original state, some details may not fully reflect the modified file. Width 720 Height 720 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Seal_of_the_United_States_Supreme_Court.svg" Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces File Talk Variants Views Read View on Commons More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Upload file Special pages Page information Languages Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view