https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1928
United States presidential election of 1928 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1928 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction Rum, “Romanism,” and race The campaign and election Results of the 1928 election United States presidential election of 1928 United States government Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History United States presidential election of 1928, American presidential election held on November 6, 1928, in which Republican Herbert Hoover defeated Democrat Alfred E. Smith in the electoral college 444–87. American presidential election, 1928Results of the American presidential election, 1928 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes Herbert Hoover Republican 444 21,392,190 Alfred E. Smith Democratic 87 15,016,443 Norman Thomas Socialist 267,420 William Z. Foster Communist 48,770 Verne L. Reynolds Socialist Labor 21,603 William F. Varney Prohibition 20,106 Source: Office of the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Rum, “Romanism,” and race Republican incumbent Calvin Coolidge unexpectedly announced in August 1927 that he would not seek a second term as president. Following his decision—issued to the press in a concise, one-sentence statement—a number of Republicans put their names in the running to replace him on the 1928 ticket. Amid rising anti-Catholic sentiment and contentious discussion of civil rights for African Americans and women and nearly a decade into Prohibition—enacted with the passage of the Eighteenth Amendment in 1919—both the Republicans and the Democratic opposition faced a difficult task in selecting a candidate who possessed the right combination of opinions on these issues. The primary elections were held beginning in March 1928: the Republicans held 15, the Democrats 16. Herbert Hoover, secretary of commerce under both Coolidge and his predecessor, Warren G. Harding, was widely considered the favourite of the Republican contenders. He was a Protestant who expressed somewhat ambiguous support for Prohibition and had a record of supporting civil rights for women and African Americans. Hoover was pitted against Frank Lowden, a former Illinois governor with similar positions (though he took a harder line on Prohibition), and Charles Dawes, Coolidge’s vice president. Hoover, who ran in 12 of the primaries and won 7 of them, received 49.2 percent of the primary votes. Hoover, HerbertHerbert Hoover.Library of Congress, Washington D.C. (neg. no. LC-USZ62-24155) Al Smith in an undated photograph.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The Democratic favourite, four-term governor of New York Al Smith, was a Catholic and an anti-Prohibition (or “wet”) candidate. Like Hoover, Smith ran in 12 primaries, winning nine and garnering 39.5 percent of the vote despite opposition from Democratic power player William McAdoo—against whom he had run for the 1924 nomination for president—and Missouri Sen. James A. Reed, who captured more than 20 percent despite only winning one of the five primaries he entered. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Both primary winners were selected as their respective party’s candidate on the first ballot at the party conventions. Though Charles Curtis, the former Senate majority leader, was unable to block Hoover’s nomination on June 12 at the Republican convention in Kansas City, Missouri, because of the latter’s sway in the committees and solid support among Southern black delegates, he was chosen as Hoover’s running mate. Smith emerged as the victor at the Democratic convention in Houston on June 26; it was the first time since before the Civil War that the party had held a convention in the South. Fears that Smith’s anti-Prohibition stance and Catholicism would alienate Southern voters led to the nomination of Joseph T. Robinson, an Arkansas senator who, unlike his running mate, toed the party line on Prohibition and was a Protestant. The campaign and election While the campaign highlighted the fissures in American society, it also underscored the similarities between the two candidates and between the positions advanced by their parties. Both men were self-made millionaires and attributed their own success, as well as the prosperity of the Harding-Coolidge years, to free enterprise and capitalism. They both had strong records on labour support, with Hoover having opposed intervention in labour disputes and Smith having engineered improvements to conditions for city workers in New York City. And both Democratic and Republican platforms called for lower taxes, restriction of immigration, regulation of the emerging radio broadcasting industry, enforcement of Prohibition, and the continuation of the prosperity experienced under the previous administrations. Hoover, HerbertButton from Herbert Hoover's 1928 U.S. presidential campaign.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. However, a number of key differences emerged. Largely at the behest of his party, Smith supported the McNary-Haugen farm bill, which proposed grain subsidies in order to raise prices. The bill had twice failed to pass under Coolidge, in part due to Hoover’s opposition to it in his capacity as secretary of commerce. He had preferred a program of modernization efforts and the formation of cooperatives instead. While campaigning, he nonetheless vowed to call a special session of Congress to address the issue of farm relief. Additionally, Hoover was granted an endorsement by the National Women’s Party because of his support for the Equal Rights Amendment, which Smith opposed. The majority of the campaign was conducted—at least by Hoover—via radio and newsreels. Hoover made only seven speeches in person, and those were essentially rote recitation of the Republican planks. Smith carried on an aggressive campaign as the “Happy Warrior” and presented a picturesque figure with his brown derby hat, cigar, and colourful speech as his trademarks and “The Sidewalks of New York” as his theme song. However, his Catholicism, compounded by his decidedly New York manner of speaking and his entanglement with the Tammany Hall machine, detracted substantially from his support among rural voters. Hoover’s droning Midwestern diction and rural roots resonated with a greater number of voters. Hoover won by a landslide with 444 electoral votes and 58.2 percent of the popular vote. Smith finished with 87 electoral votes and 40.8 percent of the popular vote. For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1924. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1932. Results of the 1928 election The results of the 1928 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1928 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes Source: Office of the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives. Herbert Hoover Republican 444 21,392,190 Alfred E. Smith Democratic 87 15,016,443 Norman Thomas Socialist 267,420 William Z. Foster Communist 48,770 Verne L. Reynolds Socialist Labor 21,603 William F. Varney Prohibition 20,106 This article was most recently revised and updated by Richard Pallardy, Research Editor. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: New social trends …the major issues of the 1928 presidential campaign between the Republican nominee, Herbert Hoover, and the Democrat, Gov. Alfred E. Smith of New York. Smith was an opponent of prohibition and a Roman Catholic. His candidacy brought enthusiasm and a heavy Democratic vote in the large cities, but a landslide… Herbert Hoover …run for another term in 1928, Hoover received the Republican presidential nomination, despite the objections of conservatives opposed to his departure from the party’s traditional laissez-faire philosophy. In the ensuing campaign, Hoover and running mate Charles Curtis ran against New York Gov. Alfred E. Smith and vice presidential candidate… Al Smith Four years later, Smith’s name was again placed in nomination and he won on the first ballot. A champion of urban America, he carried on an aggressive campaign as the “Happy Warrior” and presented a picturesque figure with his brown derby hat, cigar, and colourful… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1928 Quick Facts date November 6, 1928 participants Charles Curtis William Z. Foster Herbert Hoover Joseph T. Robinson Al Smith Norman Thomas related topics Communist Party of the United States of America Democratic Party Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1928 Additional Information More About External Websites Encyclopedia of Alabama - Presidential Race of 1928 United States History - Election of 1928: High water mark for Republicans Maps of World - U.S. Presidential Election 1928 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!