https://www.britannica.com/biography/Al-Smith
Al Smith | American politician | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Al Smith American politician Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Al Smith American politician Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Alternative Title: Alfred Emanuel Smith Al Smith, in full Alfred Emanuel Smith, (born December 30, 1873, New York, New York, U.S.—died October 4, 1944, New York City), U.S. politician, four-time Democratic governor of New York and the first Roman Catholic to run for the U.S. presidency (1928). When his father died, young Smith interrupted his schooling and went to work for seven years at the Fulton fish market in New York City to help support his family. His political career was launched in 1895, when Tammany Hall—the New York City Democratic political organization—appointed him an investigator in the office of the city commissioner of jurors. He then served in the state assembly (1903–15), where his lively intelligence, dedication to the voters of his district, and genial manner won him the powerful office of speaker by 1913. Initially a routine politician, he gained a wider point of view on social issues as a member of a commission investigating factory conditions (1911) and as a delegate to the state constitutional revision committee (1915). Tammany Hall made him sheriff of New York County (1915), and in 1917 he was elected president of the Board of Aldermen of Greater New York. Although few believed Smith had a chance in the gubernatorial race the following year, he was elected by a narrow margin. He proved an extraordinary vote getter, though he lost the governorship in the Republican landslide of 1920. He was again elected governor in 1923 and served three more terms until 1928. As governor he fought for adequate housing, improved factory laws, proper care of the mentally ill, child welfare, and state parks. He effected a reorganization of the state government on a consolidated, businesslike basis and repeatedly demonstrated his leadership by forcing Republican legislatures to accept his recommendations. Smith, AlAl Smith, c. 1920.George Grantham Bain Collection/Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (Digital File Number: LC-DIG-ggbain-13830) Smith was the first Roman Catholic to receive serious consideration as a candidate for the presidency of the United States. His religion, combined with his opposition to Prohibition, resulted in a prolonged deadlock with William G. McAdoo, the “dry” candidate, at the Democratic National Convention of 1924. Neither candidate was nominated. Four years later, Smith’s name was again placed in nomination and he won on the first ballot. A champion of urban America, he carried on an aggressive campaign as the “Happy Warrior” and presented a picturesque figure with his brown derby hat, cigar, and colourful speech as his trademarks and “The Sidewalks of New York” as his theme song. The rural districts of the West and the South combined to ensure his defeat by the conservative Republican, Herbert Hoover. Al Smith at a rally for Franklin D. Roosevelt during the 1932 presidential campaign, Boston.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today In later years Smith lost contact with his old following, and in 1936 and 1940 he supported the Republican presidential candidates. This article was most recently revised and updated by Amy Tikkanen, Corrections Manager. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: New social trends Alfred E. Smith of New York. Smith was an opponent of prohibition and a Roman Catholic. His candidacy brought enthusiasm and a heavy Democratic vote in the large cities, but a landslide against him in the dry and Protestant hinterlands secured the election for Hoover.… Franklin D. Roosevelt: Paralysis to presidency …the Democratic convention to nominate Alfred E. Smith, governor of New York, for president, and he repeated his nomination of Smith at the 1928 convention. Smith, in turn, urged Roosevelt to run for governor of New York in 1928. Roosevelt was at first reluctant but eventually agreed.… Herbert Hoover Alfred E. Smith and vice presidential candidate Joseph T. Robinson in a contest that focused on Prohibition and religion. Smith opposed Prohibition, while Hoover remained equivocal, calling it an “experiment noble in motive.” Smith’s Roman Catholicism proved a liability, especially in the South, but the… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Al Smith Quick Facts View Media Page born December 30, 1873 New York City, New York died October 4, 1944 (aged 70) New York City, New York political affiliation Democratic Party Al Smith Additional Information More About Quotes External Websites United States History - Biography of Alfred E. Smith Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Al Smith - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!