https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1932
United States presidential election of 1932 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1932 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction The nominations The campaign Results of the 1932 election United States presidential election of 1932 United States government Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History United States presidential election of 1932, American presidential election held on Nov. 8, 1932, in which Democrat Franklin D. Roosevelt defeated Republican Pres. Herbert Hoover. The 1932 election was the first held during the Great Depression, and it represented a dramatic shift in the political alignment of the country. Republicans had dominated the presidency for almost the entire period from 1860, save two terms each won by Grover Cleveland and by Woodrow Wilson (who benefited from a split in the Republican Party in 1912). And even in 1928 Hoover had crushed Democrat Alfred E. Smith, winning 444 electoral votes to Smith’s 87. Roosevelt’s victory would be the first of five successive Democratic presidential wins. American presidential election, 1932Results of the American presidential election, 1932 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes Franklin D. Roosevelt Democratic 472 22,821,857 Herbert Hoover Republican 59 15,761,841 Norman Thomas Socialist 884,781 William Z. Foster Communist 102,991 William D. Upshaw Prohibition 81,869 William H. Harvey Liberty 53,425 Verne L. Reynolds Socialist Labor 33,276 Source: Office of the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The nominations At the Republican convention in Chicago in June, Hoover was renominated easily, but there was a battle for the vice presidential slot as Vice Pres. Charles Curtis was challenged unsuccessfully by James Harbord, who had served as John Pershing’s chief of staff in World War I. At the Democratic convention in Chicago two weeks later, Roosevelt had the support of a majority of the delegates, but the Democratic Party rules required a two-thirds majority to win nomination. On the first ballot Roosevelt was shy of victory by more than 100 delegates, with his main opposition coming from Smith and John Nance Garner, who had been elected speaker of the House of Representatives in 1931. After three ballots Garner released his delegates, and on the fourth ballot Roosevelt won the party nomination. Garner was duly selected unanimously as the vice presidential candidate. Roosevelt then broke tradition by appearing in person to accept the party’s nomination. In his speech before the delegates, he said, “I pledge you, I pledge myself, to a new deal for the American people.” Hoover, HerbertHerbert Hoover.Library of Congress, Washington D.C. (neg. no. LC-USZ62-24155) Franklin D. RooseveltFranklin D. Roosevelt, 1937.UPI/Bettmann Archive The campaign The depression was the only issue of consequence in the presidential campaign of 1932. The American public had to choose between the apparently unsuccessful policies of the incumbent Hoover, who blamed the depression on external events and alleged that Roosevelt would intensify the disaster, and the vaguely defined New Deal program presented by Roosevelt. While Roosevelt avoided specifics, he made clear that his program for economic recovery would make extensive use of the power of the federal government. In a series of addresses carefully prepared by a team of advisers popularly known as the Brain Trust, he promised aid to farmers, public development of electric power, a balanced budget, and government policing of irresponsible private economic power. Besides having policy differences, the two candidates presented a stark contrast in personal demeanour as well. Roosevelt was genial and exuded confidence, while Hoover remained unremittingly grim and dour. On election day Roosevelt received nearly 23 million popular votes (57.3 percent) to Hoover’s nearly 16 million (39.6 percent); the electoral vote was 472 to 59. In a repudiation not just of Hoover but also of the Republican Party, Americans also elected substantial Democratic majorities to both houses of Congress. Franklin D. Roosevelt New Deal pin, 1932.Collection of David J. and Janice L. Frent In the four months between the election and Roosevelt’s inauguration, Hoover sought Roosevelt’s cooperation in stemming the deepening economic crisis. But the two were unable to find common ground, as Roosevelt refused to subscribe to Hoover’s proposals, which Hoover himself admitted would mean “the abandonment of 90 percent of the so-called new deal.” As a result, the economy continued to decline. By inauguration day—March 4, 1933—most banks had shut down, industrial production had fallen to just 56 percent of its 1929 level, at least 13 million wage earners were unemployed, and farmers were in desperate straits. In his inaugural address Roosevelt promised prompt, decisive action, and he conveyed some of his own unshakable self-confidence to millions of Americans listening on radios throughout the land. “This great nation will endure as it has endured, will revive and prosper,” he asserted, adding, “the only thing we have to fear is fear itself.” Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1928. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1936. Results of the 1932 election The results of the 1932 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1932 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes Source: Office of the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives. Franklin D. Roosevelt Democratic 472 22,821,857 Herbert Hoover Republican 59 15,761,841 Norman Thomas Socialist 884,781 William Z. Foster Communist 102,991 William D. Upshaw Prohibition 81,869 William H. Harvey Liberty 53,425 Verne L. Reynolds Socialist Labor 33,276 This article was most recently revised and updated by Michael Levy, Executive Editor. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Franklin D. Roosevelt: Paralysis to presidency …issue of consequence in the presidential campaign of 1932, the American people had a choice between the apparently unsuccessful policies of the incumbent Hoover and the vaguely defined New Deal program presented by Roosevelt. While Roosevelt avoided specifics, he made clear that his program for economic recovery would make extensive… Herbert Hoover By the 1932 presidential campaign, Hoover was blaming the Depression on events abroad and predicting that election of his Democratic challenger, Franklin Delano Roosevelt, would only intensify the disaster. The electorate obviously thought differently, as Roosevelt captured nearly 23 million votes (and 472 electoral votes) to Hoover’s… Franklin D. Roosevelt Franklin D. Roosevelt, 32nd president of the United States (1933–45). The only president elected to the office four times, Roosevelt led the United States through two… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1932 Quick Facts date November 8, 1932 participants Charles Curtis William Z. Foster John Nance Garner Herbert Hoover Franklin D. Roosevelt Norman Thomas related topics Communist Party of the United States of America Democratic Party Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1932 Additional Information More About External Websites United States History - Election of 1932 History Central - Presidential Elections 1932 Maps of World - U.S. Presidential Election 1932 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!