https://www.britannica.com/biography/Franklin-D-Roosevelt
Franklin D. Roosevelt | Biography, Presidency, & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents Franklin D. Roosevelt president of United States Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction & Quick Facts Early life Early political activities Paralysis to presidency The first term “The Hundred Days” The “Second New Deal” The second term Supreme Court fight End of the New Deal Foreign policy The third and fourth terms Attack on Pearl Harbor Relations with the Allies Declining health and death Legacy Cabinet of President Franklin D. Roosevelt Franklin D. Roosevelt president of United States Written By: Frank Freidel Last Updated: Apr 17, 2020 See Article History Alternative Titles: FDR, Franklin Delano Roosevelt Meet the New Deal president who piloted the United States through the Great Depression and World War IIAn overview of Franklin D. Roosevelt.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article Franklin D. Roosevelt, in full Franklin Delano Roosevelt, byname FDR, (born January 30, 1882, Hyde Park, New York, U.S. —died April 12, 1945, Warm Springs, Georgia ), 32nd president of the United States (1933–45). The only president elected to the office four times, Roosevelt led the United States through two of the greatest crises of the 20th century: the Great Depression and World War II. In so doing, he greatly expanded the powers of the federal government through a series of programs and reforms known as the New Deal, and he served as the principal architect of the successful effort to rid the world of German National Socialism and Japanese militarism. Key events in the life of Franklin D. Roosevelt.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Top Questions When was Franklin D. Roosevelt born? Franklin D. Roosevelt was born on January 30, 1882. When did Franklin D. Roosevelt die? Franklin D. Roosevelt died on April 12, 1945. What is Franklin D. Roosevelt best known for? Franklin D. Roosevelt was the 32nd president of the United States (1933–45). He was the only president elected to the office four times. Where did Franklin D. Roosevelt go to school? Franklin D. Roosevelt was educated privately at home until age 14, when he entered Groton Preparatory School in Groton, Massachusetts. He entered Harvard University in 1900. He went on to attend Columbia Law School. When did Franklin D. Roosevelt get married? Franklin D. Roosevelt married Eleanor Roosevelt on March 17, 1905. Early life Roosevelt was the only child of James and Sara Delano Roosevelt. The family lived in unostentatious and genteel luxury, dividing its time between the family estate in the Hudson River valley of New York state and European resorts. Young Roosevelt was educated privately at home until age 14, when he entered Groton Preparatory School in Groton, Massachusetts. At Groton, as at home, he was reared to be a gentleman, assuming responsibility for those less fortunate and exercising Christian stewardship through public service. A young Franklin D. Roosevelt with his mother, Sara.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. In 1900 Roosevelt entered Harvard University, where he spent most of his time on extracurricular activities and a strenuous social life; his academic record was undistinguished. It was during his Harvard years that he fell under the spell of his fifth cousin, Pres. Theodore Roosevelt, the progressive champion who advocated a vastly increased role for the government in the nation’s economy. It was also during his Harvard years that he fell in love with Theodore Roosevelt’s niece, Eleanor Roosevelt, who was then active in charitable work for the poor in New York City. The distant cousins became engaged during Roosevelt’s final year at Harvard, and they were married on March 17, 1905. Eleanor would later open her husband’s eyes to the deplorable state of the poor in New York’s slums. Roosevelt, EleanorEleanor Roosevelt in her wedding dress, 1905.Courtesy of the Franklin D. Roosevelt Library and Museum website; version date 2009 Roosevelt, Franklin D.Franklin D. Roosevelt with Eleanor and their five children, 1919.Courtesy of the Franklin D. Roosevelt Library and Museum website; version date 2009 Roosevelt attended Columbia University Law School but was not much interested in his studies. After passing the New York bar exam, he went to work as a clerk for the distinguished Wall Street firm of Carter, Ledyard, and Milburn, but he displayed the same attitude of indifference toward the legal profession as he had toward his education. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Early political activities Motivated by his cousin Theodore, who continued to urge young men of privileged backgrounds to enter public service, Roosevelt looked for an opportunity to launch a career in politics. That opportunity came in 1910, when Democratic Party leaders of Dutchess county, New York, persuaded him to undertake an apparently futile attempt to win a seat in the state senate. Roosevelt, whose branch of the family had always voted Democratic, hesitated only long enough to make sure his distinguished Republican Party relative would not speak against him. He campaigned strenuously and won the election. Not quite 29 when he took his seat in Albany, he quickly won statewide and even some national attention by leading a small group of Democratic insurgents who refused to support Billy Sheehan, the candidate for the United States Senate backed by Tammany Hall, the New York City Democratic organization. For three months Roosevelt helped hold the insurgents firm, and Tammany was forced to switch to another candidate. Franklin D. Roosevelt.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. In the New York Senate Roosevelt learned much of the give-and-take of politics, and he gradually abandoned his patrician airs and attitude of superiority. In the process, he came to champion the full program of progressive reform. By 1911 Roosevelt was supporting progressive New Jersey Gov. Woodrow Wilson for the Democratic presidential nomination of 1912. In that year Roosevelt was reelected to the state senate, despite an attack of typhoid fever that prevented him from making public appearances during the campaign. His success was attributable in part to the publicity generated by an Albany journalist, Louis McHenry Howe. Howe saw in the tall, handsome Roosevelt a politician with great promise, and he remained dedicated to Roosevelt for the rest of his life. For his work on behalf of Wilson, Roosevelt was appointed assistant secretary of the navy in March 1913. Roosevelt loved the sea and naval traditions, and he knew more about them than did his superior, navy secretary Josephus Daniels, with whom he was frequently impatient. Roosevelt tried with mixed success to bring reforms to the navy yards, which were under his jurisdiction, meanwhile learning to negotiate with labour unions among the navy’s civilian employees. After war broke out in Europe in 1914, Roosevelt became a vehement advocate of military preparedness, and following U.S. entry into the war in 1917, he built a reputation as an effective administrator. In the summer of 1918 he made an extended tour of naval bases and battlefields overseas. Upon his return, Eleanor Roosevelt discovered that her husband had been romantically involved with her social secretary, Lucy Mercer. She offered him a divorce; he refused and promised never to see Mercer again (a promise he would break in the 1940s). Although the Roosevelts agreed to remain together, their relationship ceased to be an intimate one. Franklin D. Roosevelt Quick Facts View Media Page born January 30, 1882 Hyde Park, New York died April 12, 1945 (aged 63) Warm Springs, Georgia title / office presidency of the United States of America, United States (1933-1945) governor, New York (1929-1933) United States Senate, United States (1911-1913) political affiliation Democratic Party role in World War II Pacific War Great Depression Japanese American internment Selective Service Acts New Deal Yalta Conference fireside chats Executive Order 8802 Casablanca Conference founder of March of Dimes Foundation notable family members spouse Eleanor Roosevelt related facts and data Great Depression - Facts did you know? Roosevelt passed the bar exam before dropping out of Columbia Law School. FDR served England's king and queen hot dogs on their first visit to the U.S. Load Next Page Franklin D. Roosevelt Additional Information More About Additional Reading Quotes External Websites Spartacus Educational - Biography of Franklin Delano Roosevelt United States Holocaust Memorial Museum - Holocaust Encyclopedia - Franklin Delano Roosevelt New Georgia Encyclopedia - History and Archaeology - Franklin D. Roosevelt in Georgia The American Presidency Project - Fireside Chats (F. Roosevelt) The White House - Biography of Franklin D. Roosevelt Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Franklin D. Roosevelt - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) Franklin Delano Roosevelt - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!