https://www.britannica.com/biography/Norman-Mattoon-Thomas
Norman Thomas | American politician | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Norman Thomas American politician Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Norman Thomas American politician Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Norman Thomas, (born Nov. 20, 1884, Marion, Ohio, U.S.—died Dec. 19, 1968, Huntington, N.Y.), American socialist, social reformer, and frequent candidate for political office. Following his graduation from Union Theological Seminary, New York City, about 1911, Thomas accepted the pastorate of the East Harlem Church and the chairmanship of the American Parish, a settlement house in one of the poorest sections of New York City. He became a pacifist and opposed U.S. participation in World War I. Then, in 1918 Thomas joined the Socialist Party, and, leaving his East Harlem posts the same year, was appointed secretary of the newly formed Fellowship of Reconciliation, an international pacifist organization. In 1921 he became associate editor of the influential liberal weekly The Nation, and the following year he was made executive codirector of the League for Industrial Democracy—a position he held for more than 10 years. He was also one of the founders of the American Civil Liberties Union. Thomas ran for governor of New York on the Socialist Party ticket in 1924; he ran for mayor of New York City twice (1925, 1929) and for president of the United States in six successive elections beginning in 1928. He was generally critical of the Democratic New Deal administration of Franklin D. Roosevelt, holding that it stressed solution of economic emergencies to the neglect of moral issues. In 1935 Thomas severed his connection with the New Leader, a magazine then dominated by the Marxist “Old Guard” of the Socialist Party, and supported the newly founded Socialist Call. This internal factionalism, added to Thomas’ pacifist resistance to intervention in World War II, weakened his public influence, though he remained the party’s unofficial popular spokesman in years to come. Following World War II, as chairman of the Postwar World Council, he devoted much of his energy to the problems of international peace and pressed for a cessation of fighting in Indochina. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Thomas’ many books include The Test of Freedom (1954), Mr. Chairman, Ladies and Gentlemen (1955), The Prerequisites for Peace (1959), and Socialism Re-examined (1963). Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Florence Harding …the paperboys she supervised was Norman Thomas, who later became a socialist leader and journalist in New York City. According to Thomas, the Star’s success owed much to Florence’s “energy and business sense.”… United States United States, country in North America, a federal republic of 50 states. Besides the 48 conterminous states that occupy the middle latitudes of the continent, the United States includes the state of Alaska, at the northwestern extreme of North America, and the island state of Hawaii, in the… Marion Marion, city, seat (1824) of Marion county, north central Ohio, U.S., approximately 45 miles (70 km) north of Columbus. Laid out about 1820, it was first called Jacob’s Well (for Jacob Foos, who dug for water there). Renamed in 1822 for Gen. Francis Marion of American Revolutionary War fame, it was… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Norman Thomas Quick Facts View Media Page born November 20, 1884 Marion, Ohio died December 19, 1968 (aged 84) Huntington, New York political affiliation Socialist Party founder of American Civil Liberties Union Norman Thomas Additional Information More About Additional Reading External Websites Stanford University - The Martin Luther King, Jr., Research and Education Institute - Biography of Norman Mattoon Thomas Ohio History Central - Biography of Norman Thomas The New York Public Library Archives and Manuscripts - Norman Thomas papers Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Norman Thomas - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!