https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1936
U.S. presidential election of 1936 | Results & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1936 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction Political atmosphere The nominations and campaign Results of the 1936 election United States presidential election of 1936 United States government Written By: Michael Levy See Article History United States presidential election of 1936, American presidential election held on November 3, 1936, in which Democratic Pres. Franklin D. Roosevelt won reelection, defeating Republican Alf Landon. American presidential election, 1936Results of the American presidential election, 1936 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes Franklin D. Roosevelt Democratic 523 27,476,673 Alfred M. Landon Republican 8 16,679,583 William Lemke Union 882,479 Norman Thomas Socialist 187,720 Earl Browder Communist 80,159 D. Leigh Colvin Prohibition 37,677 John W. Aiken Socialist Labor 12,829 Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the Office of the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001).Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Political atmosphere In 1932, amid the Great Depression, Roosevelt had won a landslide victory over incumbent Herbert Hoover, ending 12 years of Republican rule. After assuming the office, he took quick and decisive action, pursuing the New Deal, a broad array of measures intended to achieve economic recovery, to provide relief to the millions of poor and unemployed, and to reform aspects of the economy that Roosevelt believed had caused the collapse. The measures, passed in his first hundred days in office, had produced a limited degree of recovery by the fall of 1934, and in that year’s midterm elections the Democrats built on their already substantial majorities. Although the New Deal had alienated conservatives, including many businessmen, most Americans supported Roosevelt’s programs. Surmising that additional action was required, Roosevelt introduced a “Second New Deal” in 1935 that included the Social Security Act and the Works Progress Administration. In addition, the Democratic Congress also passed a major tax revision—labeled by its opponents as a “soak-the-rich” tax—that raised tax rates for persons with large incomes and for large corporations. Despite Roosevelt’s widespread popularity, his policies had evoked stiff criticism, including from former supporters. Sen. Huey Long of Louisiana, an early supporter of the president, had become dissatisfied with Roosevelt’s policies. Long’s Share-the-Wealth program (“every man a king”) was tempting to a depression-shocked public. A private poll in the spring of 1935 indicated that if Long could unite the various nationwide radical movements, he might carry up to four million votes in the 1936 election, thus wielding a balance of power between the two major parties and representing a threat to Roosevelt’s reelection. Long, however, died in September 1935. Father Charles E. Coughlin was also an early supporter of Roosevelt who turned on the president. The “radio priest” began expressing reactionary views that were increasingly anti-New Deal and containing anti-Semitic (and anticommunist) rhetoric. Coughlin, however, was Canadian-born and thus ineligible for the presidency, but with a listenership in the tens of millions he could wield great sway. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today The nominations and campaign The Republicans were in disarray politically from their devastating loss in 1932. In 1936 they rallied at their national convention, held in Cleveland June 9–12, in favour of Landon, considered a moderate progressive, who won 984 of the 1,003 delegate votes. The delegates unanimously ratified Landon’s choice of running mate, Frank Knox, publisher of the Chicago Daily News and a critic of the New Deal (in a surprise, Knox would go on to be appointed in 1940 by Roosevelt as secretary of the U.S. Navy). The Republican platform was as much anti-Roosevelt as it was pro-Republican. It began: Landon, Alfred M.Alf Landon.Courtesy of the Kansas State Historical Society America is in peril. The welfare of American men and women and the future of our youth are at stake. We dedicate ourselves to the preservation of their political liberty, their individual opportunity and their character as free citizens, which today for the first time are threatened by Government itself. For three long years the New Deal Administration has dishonored American traditions and flagrantly betrayed the pledges upon which the Democratic Party sought and received public support. The powers of Congress have been usurped by the President. The integrity and authority of the Supreme Court have been flouted. The rights and liberties of American citizens have been violated.… To a free people these actions are insufferable. At the Democratic convention, held two weeks later in Philadelphia, the party nominated Roosevelt and his vice president, John Nance Garner, by acclamation. Accepting the nomination in person (as he had done in 1932), Roosevelt proclaimed that “this generation of Americans has a rendezvous with destiny.” In facing the Great Depression, the president focused on the challenge before him in warlike terms: Franklin D. RooseveltFranklin D. Roosevelt, 1933.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (Digital File Number: cph 3c17121) In this world of ours in other lands, there are some people, who, in times past, have lived and fought for freedom, and seem to have grown too weary to carry on the fight. They have sold their heritage of freedom for the illusion of a living. They have yielded their democracy. I believe in my heart that only our success can stir their ancient hope. They begin to know that here in America we are waging a great and successful war. It is not alone a war against want and destitution and economic demoralization. It is more than that; it is a war for the survival of democracy. We are fighting to save a great and precious form of government for ourselves and for the world. I accept the commission you have tendered me. I join with you. I am enlisted for the duration of the war. The general election was not competitive, as Roosevelt had the firm support of farmers, labourers, and the poor. He faced the equally firm opposition of conservatives, but the epithets hurled at him from the right merely helped to unify his following. Landon could do little to stem the Roosevelt tide. Landon received fewer than 17 million votes to Roosevelt’s more than 27 million, and Roosevelt carried every state except Maine and Vermont. For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1932. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1940.Michael Levy Results of the 1936 election The results of the 1936 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1936 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the Office of the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001). Franklin D. Roosevelt Democratic 523 27,476,673 Alfred M. Landon Republican 8 16,679,583 William Lemke Union 882,479 Norman Thomas Socialist 187,720 Earl Browder Communist 80,159 D. Leigh Colvin Prohibition 37,677 John W. Aiken Socialist Labor 12,829 Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: The second New Deal and the Supreme Court In the 1936 elections Roosevelt, aided by his reform program, formed a coalition that included liberals, urban ethnics, farmers, trade unionists, and the elderly. He easily defeated the Republican nominee for president, Gov. Alfred (“Alf”) M. Landon of Kansas, receiving more than 60 percent of the popular… Franklin D. Roosevelt: The second term Roosevelt ran for reelection in 1936 with the firm support of farmers, labourers, and the poor. He faced the equally firm opposition of conservatives, but the epithets hurled at him from the right merely helped to unify his following. The Republican nominee, Gov. Alfred M. Landon of Kansas,… Gallup organization …defeat Alf Landon in the U.S. presidential election of 1936, despite the counter-predictions of other polls at that time. In doing so, he relied on novel polling techniques that delivered more-accurate results.… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1936 Quick Facts date November 3, 1936 participants Earl Browder John Nance Garner Alf Landon Franklin D. Roosevelt Norman Thomas Frank Knox related topics Communist Party of the United States of America Democratic Party Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1936 Additional Information More About External Websites Maps of World - United States Presidential Election of 1936 United States History - United States Presidential Election of 1936 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!