https://www.britannica.com/biography/Alf-Landon
Alf Landon | American politician | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Alf Landon American politician Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Alf Landon American politician Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Alternative Title: Alfred Mossman Landon Alf Landon, in full Alfred Mossman Landon, (born Sept. 9, 1887, West Middlesex, Pa., U.S.—died Oct. 12, 1987, Topeka, Kan.), governor of Kansas (1933–37) and unsuccessful U.S. Republican presidential candidate in 1936. Landon went with his parents to Independence, Kan., in 1904. He received a law degree from the University of Kansas in 1908 and entered the oil business in 1912. He attended the Bull Moose Convention of the Progressive Party in that same year and campaigned in Kansas for the Progressive Party presidential candidate, Theodore Roosevelt. Thereafter, Landon’s political affiliation remained with Kansas progressivism. During World War I he served in the U.S. Army chemical warfare service. After the war Landon returned to his oil business and Kansas politics. He was elected governor in 1932 and was reelected in 1934, the only Republican gubernatorial incumbent to win that year. This victory led to the “Landon Boom” and to his presidential candidacy of 1936. Although nearly 17,000,000 Americans voted the Republican ticket, Landon won the electoral votes of only Maine and Vermont. After losing the election he continued to participate in Kansas politics but did not again play an important role in national affairs. His daughter Nancy Landon Kassebaum was also a Republican senator from Kansas. This article was most recently revised and updated by Amy Tikkanen, Corrections Manager. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Franklin D. Roosevelt: The second term Alfred M. Landon of Kansas, a moderate, could do little to stem the Roosevelt tide. Landon received fewer than 17 million votes to Roosevelt’s more than 27 million, and Roosevelt carried every state except Maine and Vermont.… United States presidential election of 1936 won reelection, defeating Republican Alf Landon.… Nancy Landon Kassebaum …Landon was the daughter of Alfred M. Landon, governor of Kansas and Republican candidate for president in 1936. She studied political science at the University of Kansas (B.A., 1954) and diplomatic history at the University of Michigan (M.A., 1956). In 1956 she married Philip Kassebaum and began serving as vice… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Alf Landon Quick Facts View Media Page born September 9, 1887 West Middlesex, Pennsylvania died October 12, 1987 (aged 100) Topeka, Kansas title / office governor, Kansas (1933-1937) political affiliation Republican Party notable family members daughter Nancy Landon Kassebaum Alf Landon Additional Information More About External Websites United States History - Biography of Alfred M. Landon National Park Service - Biography of Alfred M. Landon Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!