https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1940
United States presidential election of 1940 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1940 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction The conventions The general election Results of the 1940 election United States presidential election of 1940 United States government Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History United States presidential election of 1940, American presidential election held on Nov. 5, 1940, in which Democrat Franklin D. Roosevelt defeated Republican Wendell L. Willkie. By becoming the first president to win a third term, Roosevelt broke the two-term precedent established by the country’s first president, George Washington. American presidential election, 1940Results of the American presidential election, 1940 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes Franklin D. Roosevelt Democratic 449 27,243,466 Wendell L. Willkie Republican 82 22,304,755 Norman Thomas Socialist 99,557 Roger W. Babson Prohibition 57,812 Earl Browder Communist 46,251 John W. Aiken Socialist Labor 14,892 Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the Office of the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001).Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The conventions The Republican Party, which had been defeated in landslide elections to Roosevelt in 1932 and 1936, had a number of leading contenders for the nomination early in 1940, including Thomas E. Dewey, a U.S. attorney in New York, Sen. Arthur H. Vandenberg of Michigan, and Sen. Robert A. Taft of Ohio. Vandenberg lost the Wisconsin and Nebraska primaries to Dewey in April and had receded as a favourite by the time the Republicans met in Philadelphia on June 24–28 to select their party standard bearer. Dewey and Taft finished atop the first ballot, but Dewey had failed to secure the 501 delegates necessary to win. Wendell L. Willkie, a lawyer who had been a Roosevelt delegate at the 1932 Democratic convention, emerged as a dark-horse candidate. By the fourth ballot Willkie had taken the lead, and on the sixth ballot, after Michigan shifted its votes to Willkie, he secured the Republican nomination. The convention then nominated Charles McNary, the party’s leader in the U.S. Senate, for the vice presidency. The Republican platform opposed participation in foreign wars, urged a strong national defense, demanded a slash in federal expenditures, and criticized Roosevelt’s concentration of power in the executive branch. Willkie, Wendell L.Wendell L. Willkie.Courtesy of the National Archives, Washington, D.C. Roosevelt, first elected in 1932 during the height of the Great Depression, was initially reluctant to stand for a third term, owing to Washington’s two-term precedent. But, following the outbreak of World War II in Europe and with the potential for further U.S. involvement and the Democrats unable to find a suitable replacement, he began to hint that he would accept the party’s presidential nomination in 1940. At the Democratic National Convention, which met on July 15–18 in Chicago, Roosevelt was nominated on the first ballot. Roosevelt chose as his running mate Secretary of Agriculture Henry A. Wallace, but his nomination was subject to strong opposition, particularly from conservative delegates. Roosevelt hinted that he would withdraw his acceptance of the nomination if Wallace failed to secure the vice presidential nomination. In the end, Wallace was confirmed as the convention’s vice presidential selection, winning the votes of about three-fifths of the delegates (House speaker William Brockman Bankhead won the backing of nearly one-third of the delegates). Roosevelt, Franklin D.Franklin D. Roosevelt.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The general election In the general election campaign, discussion centred most prominently on World War II and its relationship to the United States. Still, no fundamental differences were voiced by the two principal candidates on the subject. Both favoured a vigorous defense program and all possible aid to the United Kingdom “short of war.” Roosevelt had the advantage of position, which enabled him to counter verbal attacks with dramatic action—as when he announced that 50 over-age destroyers would be given to Britain in exchange for the lease of certain sites for naval bases (a plan that later became the lend-lease program). Although Willkie criticized the manner in which it was arranged, he did not disapprove of the substance of the program. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today On domestic issues there was almost as little avowed disagreement. Willkie declared himself in favour of retaining the main features of the New Deal legislation, promising only that, if he was elected, he would give it more efficient and impartial execution. By and large, the newspaper editorial pages lined up in favour of Willkie, including many that had previously backed Roosevelt. Still, a general disinclination to change leadership amid crisis probably weighed heavily on the minds of voters—much more so than the perceived deep-seated opposition to a third term for a president. In the end, Roosevelt won 54.7 percent of the vote and 449 electoral votes, a landslide by any definition but lower than the totals he had amassed in 1932 and 1936. Willkie received 44.8 percent and 82 electoral votes, carrying 10 states: Colorado, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Maine, Michigan, Nebraska, North Dakota, South Dakota, and Vermont. Roosevelt, Franklin D.Campaign button advocating against a third term for U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt in the 1940 election.Americana/Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1936. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1944. Results of the 1940 election The results of the 1940 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1940 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the Office of the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001). Franklin D. Roosevelt Democratic 449 27,243,466 Wendell L. Willkie Republican 82 22,304,755 Norman Thomas Socialist 99,557 Roger W. Babson Prohibition 57,812 Earl Browder Communist 46,251 John W. Aiken Socialist Labor 14,892 This article was most recently revised and updated by Michael Levy, Executive Editor. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: The road to war …a major issue of the election of 1940, in which Roosevelt ran for an unprecedented third term. Public opinion polls, a new influence upon decision makers, showed that most Americans favoured Britain but still wished to stay out of war. Roosevelt’s opponent, Wendell Willkie, capitalized on this and rose steadily… Franklin D. Roosevelt: The third and fourth terms …bases took place during the 1940 presidential election campaign. Earlier in the year the Democrats had nominated Roosevelt for a third term, even though his election would break the two-term tradition honoured since the presidency of George Washington. The Republican nominee, Wendell L. Willkie, represented a departure from the isolationist-dominated… two-step flow model of communication …voters’ decision-making processes during the 1940 U.S. presidential election. It stipulates that mass media content first reaches “opinion leaders,” people who are active media users and who collect, interpret, and diffuse the meaning of media messages to less-active media consumers. According to the authors, opinion leaders pick up information from… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1940 Quick Facts date November 5, 1940 participants Earl Browder Franklin D. Roosevelt Norman Thomas Henry A. Wallace Wendell Willkie Charles McNary related topics Communist Party of the United States of America Democratic Party Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1940 Additional Information More About External Websites Maps of World - U.S. Presidential Election 1940 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!