https://www.britannica.com/biography/Wendell-Willkie
Wendell Willkie | American politician | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Wendell Willkie American politician Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Wendell Willkie American politician Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Alternative Titles: Wendell L. Willkie, Wendell Lewis Willkie Wendell Willkie, in full Wendell Lewis Willkie, also called Wendell L. Willkie, (born February 18, 1892, Elwood, Indiana, U.S.—died October 8, 1944, New York, New York), U.S. Republican presidential candidate in 1940 who tried unsuccessfully to unseat President Franklin D. Roosevelt. He subsequently became identified with his famous “One World” concept of international cooperation. Willkie earned his law degree from Indiana University in 1916 and practiced law with his father before entering the U.S. Army during World War I. After the war he entered corporate law practice, moving to New York City in 1929 to work in the legal department of Commonwealth and Southern Corporation; four years later the dynamic lawyer was president of the huge utilities holding company. After 1933 he gained national prominence as leader of the battle of privately owned utilities against competition from the federal government’s Tennessee Valley Authority. Although Willkie had been a Democrat in the early 1930s, he turned Republican a few years later because of what he felt to be unwise government restraints on business enterprise. His effective criticism of Roosevelt’s New Deal administration made him a dark horse candidate for the Republican nomination in 1940. Spontaneously, hundreds of grass-roots “Willkie for President” clubs sprang up throughout the country. Despite a late start, limited organization, and opposition from a large segment of party leadership, he was nominated on the sixth ballot. Campaigning until he lost his voice from strenuous speaking, Willkie stressed the need to create more jobs through policies fostering business expansion and investment—at the same time preserving the best of the New Deal reforms. He also supported aid to the Allies as World War II engulfed Europe. The opposition capitalized on Willkie’s Wall Street background and the critical nature of the world situation, however, with the result that he carried only 10 states (82 electoral votes to Roosevelt’s 449); nevertheless, his popular vote of more than 22,000,000 was the largest ever received by a Republican to that time. Willkie went on to stress the need for a “loyal opposition” in a two-party system; he visited England (1941) and the Middle East, the Soviet Union, and China (1942). In 1942 he became chairman of the board of 20th Century-Fox Film Corporation. His book, One World (1943), largely an outgrowth of his travels, made a strong plea for postwar cooperation and was influential in turning many Republicans away from isolationism. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Support of Roosevelt’s war policies brought considerable opposition to Willkie’s renomination in 1944, and after his defeat in the Wisconsin primary, he withdrew from the race. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: The road to war Roosevelt’s opponent, Wendell Willkie, capitalized on this and rose steadily in the polls by attacking the president as a warmonger. An alarmed Roosevelt fought back, going so far as to make what he knew was an empty promise. “Your boys,” he said just before the election, “are… 20th-century international relations: From neutrality to active aid …deceptive campaign for intervention, and Wendell Willkie charged during the presidential campaign that Roosevelt’s reelection would surely mean war. The president responded that “your boys are not going to be sent into any foreign wars,” gliding over the fact that if the United States were attacked, it would no longer… Franklin D. Roosevelt: The third and fourth terms The Republican nominee, Wendell L. Willkie, represented a departure from the isolationist-dominated Republican Party, and the two candidates agreed on most foreign-policy issues, including increased military aid to Britain. On election day, Roosevelt defeated Willkie soundly—by 27 million to 22 million popular votes—though his margin of victory was… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Wendell Willkie Quick Facts View Media Page born February 18, 1892 Elwood, Indiana died October 8, 1944 (aged 52) New York City, New York political affiliation Republican Party Wendell Willkie Additional Information More About Additional Reading External Websites Ohio History Central - Wendell Willkie Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!