https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Supreme_Court_of_the_United_States
Supreme Court of the United States - Wikipedia
Supreme Court of the United States From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search "SCOTUS" redirects here. For other uses, see SCOTUS (disambiguation). Highest court in the United States Supreme Court of the United States Established March 4, 1789; 231 years ago (1789-03-04)[1] Location Washington, D.C. Coordinates 38°53′26″N 77°00′16″W﻿ / ﻿38.89056°N 77.00444°W﻿ / 38.89056; -77.00444Coordinates: 38°53′26″N 77°00′16″W﻿ / ﻿38.89056°N 77.00444°W﻿ / 38.89056; -77.00444 Composition method Presidential nomination with Senate confirmation Authorized by Constitution of the United States Judge term length Life tenure Number of positions 9 (by statute) Website www.supremecourt.gov Chief Justice of the United States Currently John Roberts Since September 29, 2005; 14 years ago (2005-09-29) This article is part of the series on the United States Supreme Court The Court Appointment and confirmation Lists of decisions Procedures History Court demographics Ideological leanings of justices Supreme Court building Current membership Chief justice John Roberts Associate justices Clarence Thomas Ruth Bader Ginsburg Stephen Breyer Samuel Alito Sonia Sotomayor Elena Kagan Neil Gorsuch Brett Kavanaugh Retired justices Sandra Day O'Connor Anthony Kennedy David Souter Lists of justices List of all justices by court by time in office by education List of all chief justices List of all associate justices Specialty lists All nominations Unsuccessful nominations Justices who served in Congress Burial places of justices Court functionaries Clerks Reporter of Decisions Marshal of the Court Supreme Court Police Other countries Law Portal v t e Constitutional law of the United States Overview Articles Amendments History Judicial review Principles Separation of powers Individual rights Rule of law Federalism Republicanism Government structure Legislative branch Executive branch Judicial branch State government Local government Individual rights Freedom of religion Freedom of speech Freedom of the press Freedom of assembly Right to petition Freedom of association Right to keep and bear arms Right to trial by jury Criminal procedural rights Right to privacy Freedom from slavery Due process Equal protection Citizenship Voting rights Comprehensible rules Theory Living Constitution Originalism Purposivism Textualism Strict constructionism v t e The Supreme Court of the United States (SCOTUS) is the highest court in the federal judiciary of the United States of America. It has ultimate (and largely discretionary) appellate jurisdiction over all federal and state court cases that involve a point of federal law, and original jurisdiction over a narrow range of cases, specifically "all Cases affecting Ambassadors, other public Ministers and Consuls, and those in which a State shall be Party".[2] The Court holds the power of judicial review, the ability to invalidate a statute for violating a provision of the Constitution. It is also able to strike down presidential directives for violating either the Constitution or statutory law.[3] However, it may act only within the context of a case in an area of law over which it has jurisdiction. The Court may decide cases having political overtones, but it has ruled that it does not have power to decide non-justiciable political questions. Established by Article III of the Constitution, the composition and procedures of the Supreme Court were initially established by the 1st Congress through the Judiciary Act of 1789. As later set by the Judiciary Act of 1869, the Court consists of the chief justice of the United States and eight associate justices. Each justice has lifetime tenure, meaning they remain on the Court until they resign, retire, die, or are removed from office.[4] When a vacancy occurs, the president, with the advice and consent of the Senate, appoints a new justice. Each justice has a single vote in deciding the cases argued before it. When in majority, the chief justice decides who writes the opinion of the court; otherwise, the most senior justice in the majority assigns the task of writing the opinion. The Court meets in the Supreme Court Building in Washington, D.C. Its law enforcement arm is the Supreme Court Police. Contents 1 History 1.1 Earliest beginnings through Marshall 1.2 From Taney to Taft 1.3 New Deal era 1.4 Warren and Burger 1.5 Rehnquist and Roberts 2 Composition 2.1 Size of the court 2.2 Appointment and confirmation 2.2.1 Recess appointments 2.3 Tenure 3 Membership 3.1 Current justices 3.1.1 Length of tenure 3.2 Court demographics 3.3 Retired justices 3.4 Seniority and seating 3.5 Salary 3.6 Judicial leanings 4 Facilities 5 Jurisdiction 5.1 Justices as circuit justices 6 Process 6.1 Case selection 6.2 Oral argument 6.3 Supreme Court bar 6.4 Decision 6.5 Published opinions 6.5.1 Citations to published opinions 7 Institutional powers and constraints 8 Law clerks 8.1 Politicization of the Court 9 Criticism 9.1 Judicial activism 9.2 Failing to protect individual rights 9.3 Too much power 9.4 Courts are a poor check on executive power 9.5 Federal versus state power 9.6 Secretive proceedings 9.7 Judicial interference in political disputes 9.8 Not choosing enough cases to review 9.9 Lifetime tenure 9.10 Accepting gifts and outside income 10 See also 10.1 Landmark Supreme Court decisions (selection) 11 References 11.1 Bibliography 12 Further reading 13 External links History[edit] Main article: History of the Supreme Court of the United States It was while debating the separation of powers between the legislative and executive departments that delegates to the 1787 Constitutional Convention established the parameters for the national judiciary. Creating a "third branch" of government was a novel idea; in the English tradition, judicial matters had been treated as an aspect of royal (executive) authority. Early on, the delegates who were opposed to having a strong central government argued that national laws could be enforced by state courts, while others, including James Madison, advocated for a national judicial authority consisting of various tribunals chosen by the national legislature. It was also proposed that the judiciary should have a role in checking the executive's power to veto or revise laws. In the end, the framers compromised by sketching only a general outline of the judiciary, vesting federal judicial power in "one supreme Court, and in such inferior Courts as the Congress may from time to time ordain and establish".[5][6] They delineated neither the exact powers and prerogatives of the Supreme Court nor the organization of the judicial branch as a whole. The Royal Exchange, New York City, first meeting place of the Supreme Court The 1st United States Congress provided the detailed organization of a federal judiciary through the Judiciary Act of 1789. The Supreme Court, the country's highest judicial tribunal, was to sit in the nation's Capital and would initially be composed of a chief justice and five associate justices. The act also divided the country into judicial districts, which were in turn organized into circuits. Justices were required to "ride circuit" and hold circuit court twice a year in their assigned judicial district.[7] Immediately after signing the act into law, President George Washington nominated the following people to serve on the court: John Jay for chief justice and John Rutledge, William Cushing, Robert H. Harrison, James Wilson, and John Blair Jr. as associate justices. All six were confirmed by the Senate on September 26, 1789. Harrison, however, declined to serve. In his place, Washington later nominated James Iredell.[8] The Supreme Court held its inaugural session from February 2 through February 10, 1790, at the Royal Exchange in New York City, then the U.S. capital.[9] A second session was held there in August 1790.[10] The earliest sessions of the court were devoted to organizational proceedings, as the first cases did not reach it until 1791.[7] When the national capital moved to Philadelphia in 1790, the Supreme Court did so as well. After initially meeting at Independence Hall, the Court established its chambers at City Hall.[11] Earliest beginnings through Marshall[edit] Main articles: Jay Court, Rutledge Court, Ellsworth Court, and Marshall Court Chief Justice Marshall (1801–1835) Under Chief Justices Jay, Rutledge, and Ellsworth (1789–1801), the Court heard few cases; its first decision was West v. Barnes (1791), a case involving procedure.[12] As the Court initially had only six members, every decision that it made by a majority was also made by two-thirds (voting four to two).[13] However, Congress has always allowed less than the court's full membership to make decisions, starting with a quorum of four justices in 1789.[14] The court lacked a home of its own and had little prestige,[15] a situation not helped by the era's highest-profile case, Chisholm v. Georgia (1793), which was reversed within two years by the adoption of the Eleventh Amendment.[16] The court's power and prestige grew substantially during the Marshall Court (1801–1835).[17] Under Marshall, the court established the power of judicial review over acts of Congress,[18] including specifying itself as the supreme expositor of the Constitution (Marbury v. Madison)[19][20] and making several important constitutional rulings that gave shape and substance to the balance of power between the federal government and states (notably, Martin v. Hunter's Lessee, McCulloch v. Maryland and Gibbons v. Ogden).[21][22][23][24] The Marshall Court also ended the practice of each justice issuing his opinion seriatim,[25] a remnant of British tradition,[26] and instead issuing a single majority opinion.[25] Also during Marshall's tenure, although beyond the Court's control, the impeachment and acquittal of Justice Samuel Chase in 1804–05 helped cement the principle of judicial independence.[27][28] From Taney to Taft[edit] Main articles: Taney Court, Chase Court, Waite Court, Fuller Court, White Court, and Taft Court The Taney Court (1836–1864) made several important rulings, such as Sheldon v. Sill, which held that while Congress may not limit the subjects the Supreme Court may hear, it may limit the jurisdiction of the lower federal courts to prevent them from hearing cases dealing with certain subjects.[29] Nevertheless, it is primarily remembered for its ruling in Dred Scott v. Sandford,[30] which helped precipitate the Civil War.[31] In the Reconstruction era, the Chase, Waite, and Fuller Courts (1864–1910) interpreted the new Civil War amendments to the Constitution[24] and developed the doctrine of substantive due process (Lochner v. New York;[32] Adair v. United States).[33] Under the White and Taft Courts (1910–1930), the Court held that the Fourteenth Amendment had incorporated some guarantees of the Bill of Rights against the states (Gitlow v. New York),[34] grappled with the new antitrust statutes (Standard Oil Co. of New Jersey v. United States), upheld the constitutionality of military conscription (Selective Draft Law Cases)[35] and brought the substantive due process doctrine to its first apogee (Adkins v. Children's Hospital).[36] New Deal era[edit] Main articles: Hughes Court, Stone Court, and Vinson Court The Hughes Court in 1937, photographed by Erich Salomon. Members include Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes (center), Louis Brandeis, Benjamin N. Cardozo, Harlan Stone, Owen Roberts, and the "Four Horsemen" Pierce Butler, James Clark McReynolds, George Sutherland, and Willis Van Devanter, who opposed New Deal policies. During the Hughes, Stone, and Vinson Courts (1930–1953), the Court gained its own accommodation in 1935[37] and changed its interpretation of the Constitution, giving a broader reading to the powers of the federal government to facilitate President Franklin Roosevelt's New Deal (most prominently West Coast Hotel Co. v. Parrish, Wickard v. Filburn, United States v. Darby and United States v. Butler).[38][39][40] During World War II, the Court continued to favor government power, upholding the internment of Japanese citizens (Korematsu v. United States) and the mandatory pledge of allegiance (Minersville School District v. Gobitis). Nevertheless, Gobitis was soon repudiated (West Virginia State Board of Education v. Barnette), and the Steel Seizure Case restricted the pro-government trend. Warren and Burger[edit] Main articles: Warren Court and Burger Court The Warren Court (1953–1969) dramatically expanded the force of Constitutional civil liberties.[41] It held that segregation in public schools violates equal protection (Brown v. Board of Education, Bolling v. Sharpe and Green v. County School Bd.)[42] and that traditional legislative district boundaries violated the right to vote (Reynolds v. Sims). It created a general right to privacy (Griswold v. Connecticut),[43] limited the role of religion in public school (most prominently Engel v. Vitale and Abington School District v. Schempp),[44][45] incorporated most guarantees of the Bill of Rights against the States—prominently Mapp v. Ohio (the exclusionary rule) and Gideon v. Wainwright (right to appointed counsel),[46][47]—and required that criminal suspects be apprised of all these rights by police (Miranda v. Arizona).[48] At the same time, however, the Court limited defamation suits by public figures (New York Times v. Sullivan) and supplied the government with an unbroken run of antitrust victories.[49] The Burger Court (1969–1986) marked a conservative shift.[50] It also expanded Griswold's right to privacy to strike down abortion laws (Roe v. Wade),[51] but divided deeply on affirmative action (Regents of the University of California v. Bakke)[52] and campaign finance regulation (Buckley v. Valeo).[53] It also wavered on the death penalty, ruling first that most applications were defective (Furman v. Georgia),[54] but later, that the death penalty itself was not unconstitutional (Gregg v. Georgia).[54][55][56] Rehnquist and Roberts[edit] Main articles: Rehnquist Court and Roberts Court Justices of the Supreme Court with President George W. Bush (center), October 2005. The Rehnquist Court (1986–2005) was noted for its revival of judicial enforcement of federalism,[57] emphasizing the limits of the Constitution's affirmative grants of power (United States v. Lopez) and the force of its restrictions on those powers (Seminole Tribe v. Florida, City of Boerne v. Flores).[58][59][60][61][62] It struck down single-sex state schools as a violation of equal protection (United States v. Virginia), laws against sodomy as violations of substantive due process (Lawrence v. Texas),[63] and the line item veto (Clinton v. New York), but upheld school vouchers (Zelman v. Simmons-Harris) and reaffirmed Roe's restrictions on abortion laws (Planned Parenthood v. Casey).[64] The Court's decision in Bush v. Gore, which ended the electoral recount during the presidential election of 2000, was especially controversial.[65][66] The Roberts Court (2005–present) is regarded as more conservative than the Rehnquist Court.[67][68][69][70] Some of its major rulings have concerned federal preemption (Wyeth v. Levine), civil procedure (Twombly-Iqbal), abortion (Gonzales v. Carhart),[71] climate change (Massachusetts v. EPA), same-sex marriage (United States v. Windsor and Obergefell v. Hodges) and the Bill of Rights, notably in Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission (First Amendment),[72] Heller-McDonald (Second Amendment)[73] and Baze v. Rees (Eighth Amendment).[74][75] Composition[edit] Size of the court[edit] Article III of the Constitution sets neither the size of the Supreme Court nor any specific positions on it (though existence of the office of chief justice is tacitly acknowledged in Article I, Section 3, Clause 6). Instead, these powers are entrusted to Congress, which initially established a six-member Supreme Court composed of a chief justice and five associate justices through Judiciary Act of 1789. The size of the Court was first altered by an 1801 act which would have reduced the size of the court to five members upon its next vacancy, but an 1802 act promptly negated the 1801 act, legally restoring the court's size to six members before any such vacancy occurred. As the nation's boundaries grew, Congress added justices to correspond with the growing number of judicial circuits: seven in 1807, nine in 1837, and ten in 1863.[76] In 1866, at the behest of Chief Justice Chase and in an attempt to limit the power of Andrew Johnson, Congress passed an act providing that the next three justices to retire would not be replaced, which would thin the bench to seven justices by attrition. Consequently, one seat was removed in 1866 and a second in 1867. In 1869, however, the Circuit Judges Act returned the number of justices to nine,[77] where it has since remained. President Franklin D. Roosevelt attempted to expand the Court in 1937. His proposal envisioned appointment of one additional justice for each incumbent justice who reached the age of 70 years 6 months and refused retirement, up to a maximum bench of 15 justices. The proposal was ostensibly to ease the burden of the docket on elderly judges, but the actual purpose was widely understood as an effort to "pack" the Court with justices who would support Roosevelt's New Deal.[78] The plan, usually called the "court-packing plan", failed in Congress.[79] Nevertheless, the Court's balance began to shift within months when Justice Willis Van Devanter retired and was replaced by Senator Hugo Black. By the end of 1941, Roosevelt had appointed seven justices and elevated Harlan Fiske Stone to Chief Justice.[80] Appointment and confirmation[edit] Main article: Appointment and confirmation to the Supreme Court of the United States Article II, Section 2, Clause 2 of the United States Constitution, known as the Appointments Clause, empowers the president to nominate and, with the confirmation (advice and consent) of the United States Senate, to appoint public officials, including justices of the Supreme Court. This clause is one example of the system of checks and balances inherent in the Constitution. The president has the plenary power to nominate, while the Senate possesses the plenary power to reject or confirm the nominee. The Constitution sets no qualifications for service as a justice, thus a president may nominate anyone to serve, and the Senate may not set any qualifications or otherwise limit who the president can choose.[81] Flowchart showing process of appointment of United States Supreme Court justices. In modern times, the confirmation process has attracted considerable attention from the press and advocacy groups, which lobby senators to confirm or to reject a nominee depending on whether their track record aligns with the group's views. The Senate Judiciary Committee conducts hearings and votes on whether the nomination should go to the full Senate with a positive, negative or neutral report. The committee's practice of personally interviewing nominees is relatively recent. The first nominee to appear before the committee was Harlan Fiske Stone in 1925, who sought to quell concerns about his links to Wall Street, and the modern practice of questioning began with John Marshall Harlan II in 1955.[82] Once the committee reports out the nomination, the full Senate considers it. Rejections are relatively uncommon; the Senate has explicitly rejected twelve Supreme Court nominees, most recently Robert Bork, nominated by President Ronald Reagan in 1987. Although Senate rules do not necessarily allow a negative vote in committee to block a nomination, prior to 2017 a nomination could be blocked by filibuster once debate had begun in the full Senate. President Lyndon B. Johnson's nomination of sitting Associate Justice Abe Fortas to succeed Earl Warren as Chief Justice in 1968 was the first successful filibuster of a Supreme Court nominee. It included both Republican and Democratic senators concerned with Fortas's ethics. President Donald Trump's nomination of Neil Gorsuch to the seat left vacant by Antonin Scalia's death was the second. Unlike the Fortas filibuster, however, only Democratic Senators voted against cloture on the Gorsuch nomination, citing his perceived conservative judicial philosophy, and the Republican majority's prior refusal to take up President Barack Obama's nomination of Merrick Garland to fill the vacancy.[83] This led the Republican majority to change the rules and eliminate the filibuster for Supreme Court nominations.[84] Not every Supreme Court nominee has received a floor vote in the Senate. A president may withdraw a nomination before an actual confirmation vote occurs, typically because it is clear that the Senate will reject the nominee; this occurred most recently with President George W. Bush's nomination of Harriet Miers in 2006. The Senate may also fail to act on a nomination, which expires at the end of the session. For example, President Dwight Eisenhower's first nomination of John Marshall Harlan II in November 1954 was not acted on by the Senate; Eisenhower re-nominated Harlan in January 1955, and Harlan was confirmed two months later. Most recently, as previously noted, the Senate failed to act on the March 2016 nomination of Merrick Garland; the nomination expired in January 2017, and the vacancy was filled by Neil Gorsuch, an appointee of President Trump.[85] Once the Senate confirms a nomination, the president must prepare and sign a commission, to which the Seal of the Department of Justice must be affixed, before the new justice can take office.[86] The seniority of an associate justice is based on the commissioning date, not the confirmation or swearing-in date.[87] The importance of commissioning is underscored by the case of Edwin M. Stanton. Although appointed to the court on December 19, 1869, by President Ulysses S. Grant and confirmed by the Senate a few days later, Stanton died on December 24, prior to receiving his commission. He is not, therefore, considered to have been an actual member of the court. Before 1981, the approval process of justices was usually rapid. From the Truman through Nixon administrations, justices were typically approved within one month. From the Reagan administration to the present, however, the process has taken much longer. Some believe this is because Congress sees justices as playing a more political role than in the past.[88] According to the Congressional Research Service, the average number of days from nomination to final Senate vote since 1975 is 67 days (2.2 months), while the median is 71 days (or 2.3 months).[89][90] Recess appointments[edit] When the Senate is in recess, a president may make temporary appointments to fill vacancies. Recess appointees hold office only until the end of the next Senate session (less than two years). The Senate must confirm the nominee for them to continue serving; of the two chief justices and eleven associate justices who have received recess appointments, only Chief Justice John Rutledge was not subsequently confirmed.[91] No president since Dwight D. Eisenhower has made a recess appointment to the Court, and the practice has become rare and controversial even in lower federal courts.[92] In 1960, after Eisenhower had made three such appointments, the Senate passed a "sense of the Senate" resolution that recess appointments to the Court should only be made in "unusual circumstances".[93] Such resolutions are not legally binding but are an expression of Congress's views in the hope of guiding executive action.[93][94] The Supreme Court's 2014 decision in National Labor Relations Board v. Noel Canning limited the ability of the President to make recess appointments (including appointments to the Supreme Court); the Court ruled that the Senate decides when the Senate is in session (or in recess). Writing for the Court, Justice Breyer stated, "We hold that, for purposes of the Recess Appointments Clause, the Senate is in session when it says it is, provided that, under its own rules, it retains the capacity to transact Senate business."[95] This ruling allows the Senate to prevent recess appointments through the use of pro-forma sessions.[96] Tenure[edit] The interior of the United States Supreme Court The Constitution provides that justices "shall hold their offices during good behavior" (unless appointed during a Senate recess). The term "good behavior" is understood to mean justices may serve for the remainder of their lives, unless they are impeached and convicted by Congress, resign, or retire.[97] Only one justice has been impeached by the House of Representatives (Samuel Chase, March 1804), but he was acquitted in the Senate (March 1805).[98] Moves to impeach sitting justices have occurred more recently (for example, William O. Douglas was the subject of hearings twice, in 1953 and again in 1970; and Abe Fortas resigned while hearings were being organized in 1969), but they did not reach a vote in the House. No mechanism exists for removing a justice who is permanently incapacitated by illness or injury, but unable (or unwilling) to resign.[99] Because justices have indefinite tenure, timing of vacancies can be unpredictable. Sometimes vacancies arise in quick succession, as in the early 1970s when Lewis Franklin Powell, Jr. and William Rehnquist were nominated to replace Hugo Black and John Marshall Harlan II, who retired within a week of each other. Sometimes a great length of time passes between nominations, such as the eleven years between Stephen Breyer's nomination in 1994 to succeed Harry Blackmun and the nomination of John Roberts in 2005 to fill the seat of Sandra Day O'Connor (though Roberts' nomination was withdrawn and resubmitted for the role of Chief Justice after Rehnquist died). Despite the variability, all but four presidents have been able to appoint at least one justice. William Henry Harrison died a month after taking office, though his successor (John Tyler) made an appointment during that presidential term. Likewise, Zachary Taylor died 16 months after taking office, but his successor (Millard Fillmore) also made a Supreme Court nomination before the end of that term. Andrew Johnson, who became president after the assassination of Abraham Lincoln, was denied the opportunity to appoint a justice by a reduction in the size of the Court. Jimmy Carter is the only person elected president to have left office after at least one full term without having the opportunity to appoint a justice. Somewhat similarly, presidents James Monroe, Franklin D. Roosevelt, and George W. Bush each served a full term without an opportunity to appoint a justice, but made appointments during their subsequent terms in office. No president who has served more than one full term has gone without at least one opportunity to make an appointment. Membership[edit] See also: List of Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States Current justices[edit] The Supreme Court consists of a chief justice, currently John Roberts, and eight associate justices. Among the current members of the Court, Clarence Thomas is the longest-serving justice, with a tenure of 10,415 days (28 years, 188 days) as of April 28, 2020; the most recent justice to join the court is Brett Kavanaugh, whose tenure began on October 6, 2018. Justice / birthdate and place Appointed by SCV Age at Start date / length of service Previous position or office (most recent prior to joining the Court) Succeeded Start Present John Roberts January 27, 1955 Buffalo, New York G. W. Bush 78–22 50 65 September 29, 2005 14 years, 212 days Circuit Judge, Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (2003–2005) Rehnquist Clarence Thomas June 23, 1948 Pin Point, Georgia G. H. W. Bush 52–48 43 71 October 23, 1991 28 years, 188 days Circuit Judge, Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (1990–1991) Marshall Ruth Bader Ginsburg March 15, 1933 Brooklyn, New York Clinton 96–3 60 87 August 10, 1993 26 years, 262 days Circuit Judge, Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (1980–1993) White Stephen Breyer August 15, 1938 San Francisco, California Clinton 87–9 55 81 August 3, 1994 25 years, 269 days Chief Judge, Court of Appeals for the First Circuit (1990–1994) Blackmun Samuel Alito April 1, 1950 Trenton, New Jersey G. W. Bush 58–42 55 70 January 31, 2006 14 years, 88 days Circuit Judge, Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit (1990–2006) O'Connor Sonia Sotomayor June 25, 1954 The Bronx, New York Obama 68–31 55 65 August 8, 2009 10 years, 264 days Circuit Judge, Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (1998–2009) Souter Elena Kagan April 28, 1960 Manhattan, New York Obama 63–37 50 60 August 7, 2010 9 years, 267 days Solicitor General of the United States (2009–2010) Stevens Neil Gorsuch August 29, 1967 Denver, Colorado Trump 54–45 49 52 April 10, 2017 3 years, 18 days Circuit Judge, Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit (2006–2017) Scalia Brett Kavanaugh February 12, 1965 Washington, D.C. Trump 50–48 53 55 October 6, 2018 1 year, 205 days Circuit Judge, Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (2006–2018) Kennedy Source: [100] Length of tenure[edit] This graphical timeline depicts the length of each current Supreme Court justice's tenure (not seniority) on the Court: Court demographics[edit] Further information: Demographics of the Supreme Court of the United States The Court currently has six male and three female justices. Among the nine justices, there is one African-American (Justice Thomas) and one Hispanic (Justice Sotomayor). Two of the justices were born to at least one immigrant parent: Justice Alito's parents were born in Italy,[101][102] and Justice Ginsburg's father was born in Russia.[103] At least five justices are Roman Catholics and three are Jewish. It is unclear whether Neil Gorsuch considers himself a Catholic or an Episcopalian.[104] Every current justice has an Ivy League background.[105] Four justices are from the state of New York, one is from California, one is from New Jersey, one is from Georgia, one is from Colorado, and one is from Washington, D.C.[106][107] In the 19th century, every justice was a man of Northwestern European descent, and almost always Protestant. Diversity concerns focused on geography, to represent all regions of the country, rather than religious, ethnic, or gender diversity.[108] The first four female justices: O'Connor, Sotomayor, Ginsburg, and Kagan. Historically, most justices have been Protestants, including 36 Episcopalians, 19 Presbyterians, 10 Unitarians, 5 Methodists, and 3 Baptists.[109][110] The first Catholic justice was Roger Taney in 1836,[111] and 1916 saw the appointment of the first Jewish justice, Louis Brandeis.[112] In recent years the historical situation has reversed. Most recent justices have been either Catholic or Jewish. Racial, ethnic, and gender diversity in the Court began to increase in the late 20th century. Thurgood Marshall became the first African-American justice in 1967.[112] Sandra Day O'Connor became the first female justice in 1981.[112] In 1986, Antonin Scalia became the first Italian-American justice. Marshall was succeeded by African-American Clarence Thomas in 1991.[113] O'Connor was joined by Ruth Bader Ginsburg in 1993.[114] After O'Connor's retirement Ginsburg was joined in 2009 by Sonia Sotomayor, the first Hispanic and Latina justice,[112] and in 2010 by Elena Kagan, for a total of four female justices in the Court's history.[114] There have been six foreign-born justices in the Court's history: James Wilson (1789–1798), born in Caskardy, Scotland; James Iredell (1790–1799), born in Lewes, England; William Paterson (1793–1806), born in County Antrim, Ireland; David Brewer (1889–1910), born to American missionaries in Smyrna, Ottoman Empire (now Izmir, Turkey); George Sutherland (1922–1939), born in Buckinghamshire, England; and Felix Frankfurter (1939–1962), born in Vienna, Austria.[112] Retired justices[edit] There are currently three living retired justices of the Supreme Court of the United States: Sandra Day O'Connor, Anthony Kennedy, and David Souter. As retired justices, they no longer participate in the work of the Supreme Court, but may be designated for temporary assignments to sit on lower federal courts, usually the United States Courts of Appeals. Such assignments are formally made by the Chief Justice, on request of the Chief Judge of the lower court and with the consent of the retired justice. In recent years, Justice O'Connor has sat with several Courts of Appeals around the country, and Justice Souter has frequently sat on the First Circuit, the court of which he was briefly a member before joining the Supreme Court. The status of a retired justice is analogous to that of a circuit or district court judge who has taken senior status, and eligibility of a supreme court justice to assume retired status (rather than simply resign from the bench) is governed by the same age and service criteria. In recent times, justices tend to strategically plan their decisions to leave the bench with personal, institutional, ideological, partisan and sometimes even political factors playing a role.[115][116] The fear of mental decline and death often motivates justices to step down. The desire to maximize the Court's strength and legitimacy through one retirement at a time, when the Court is in recess, and during non-presidential election years suggests a concern for institutional health. Finally, especially in recent decades, many justices have timed their departure to coincide with a philosophically compatible president holding office, to ensure that a like-minded successor would be appointed.[117][118] Justice / Birthdate and place Appointed by Retired under Age at Tenure Start Retirement Present Start date End date Length Sandra Day O'Connor March 26, 1930 El Paso, Texas Reagan G. W. Bush 51 75 90 September 25, 1981 January 31, 2006 24 years, 128 days Anthony Kennedy July 23, 1936 Sacramento, California Reagan Trump 51 82 83 February 18, 1988 July 31, 2018 30 years, 163 days David Souter September 17, 1939 Melrose, Massachusetts G. H. W. Bush Obama 51 69 80 October 9, 1990 June 29, 2009 18 years, 263 days Source: [100] Seniority and seating[edit] This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Supreme Court of the United States" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (January 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) The current Roberts Court justices (since October 2018): Front row (left to right): Stephen Breyer, Clarence Thomas, Chief Justice John Roberts, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, and Samuel Alito. Back row (left to right): Neil Gorsuch, Sonia Sotomayor, Elena Kagan, and Brett Kavanaugh. For the most part, the day-to-day activities of the justices are governed by rules of protocol based upon the seniority of justices. The Chief Justice always ranks first in the order of precedence—regardless of the length of their service. The associate justices are then ranked by the length of their service. The chief justice sits in the center on the bench, or at the head of the table during conferences. The other justices are seated in order of seniority. The senior-most associate justice sits immediately to the chief justice's right; the second most senior sits immediately to their left. The seats alternate right to left in order of seniority, with the most junior justice occupying the last seat. During Court sessions, justices sit according to seniority, with the chief justice in the center and associate justices on alternating sides, with the most senior associate justice on the chief justice's immediate right, and the most junior associate justice seated on the left farthest away from the chief justice. Therefore, the current court sits as follows from left to right, from the perspective of those facing the Court: Gorsuch, Sotomayor, Breyer, Thomas (most senior associate justice), Roberts (chief justice), Ginsburg, Alito, Kagan, and Kavanaugh (most junior associate justice). Likewise, when the members of the Court gather for official group photographs, justices are arranged in order of seniority, with the five most senior members seated in the front row in the same order as they would sit during Court sessions, and the four most junior justices standing behind them, again in the same order as they would sit during Court sessions. In the justices' private conferences, current practice is for them to speak and vote in order of seniority, beginning with the chief justice first and ending with the most junior associate justice. By custom, the most junior associate justice in these conferences is charged with any menial tasks the justices may require as they convene alone, such as answering the door of their conference room, serving beverages and transmitting orders of the court to the clerk.[119] Justice Joseph Story served the longest as junior justice, from February 3, 1812, to September 1, 1823, for a total of 4,228 days. Justice Stephen Breyer follows very closely behind serving from August 3, 1994, to January 31, 2006, for a total of 4,199 days.[120] Justice Elena Kagan comes in at a distant third serving from August 6, 2010, to April 10, 2017, for a total of 2,439 days. Salary[edit] Main article: Federal judge salaries in the United States As of 2018, associate justices receive a yearly salary of $255,300 and the chief justice is paid $267,000 per year.[121] Article III, Section 1 of the U.S. Constitution prohibits Congress from reducing the pay for incumbent justices. Once a justice meets age and service requirements, the justice may retire. Judicial pensions are based on the same formula used for federal employees, but a justice's pension, as with other federal courts judges, can never be less than their salary at the time of retirement. Judicial leanings[edit] Further information: Ideological leanings of United States Supreme Court justices and Segal–Cover score Although justices are nominated by the president in power, justices do not represent or receive official endorsements from political parties, as is accepted practice in the legislative and executive branches. Jurists are, however, informally categorized in legal and political circles as being judicial conservatives, moderates, or liberals. Such leanings, however, generally refer to legal outlook rather than a political or legislative one. The nominations of justices are endorsed by individual politicians in the legislative branch who vote their approval or disapproval of the nominated justice. Following the confirmation of Brett Kavanaugh in 2018, the Court currently consists of five justices appointed by Republican presidents and four appointed by Democratic presidents. It is popularly accepted that Chief Justice Roberts and associate justices Thomas, Alito, Gorsuch, and Kavanaugh, appointed by Republican presidents, compose the Court's conservative wing. Justices Ginsburg, Breyer, Sotomayor and Kagan, appointed by Democratic presidents, compose the Court's liberal wing. Gorsuch had a track record as a reliably conservative judge in the 10th circuit.[122] Kavanaugh was considered one of the more conservative judges in the DC Circuit prior to his appointment to the Supreme Court.[123][124] Chief Justice Roberts is currently considered the Court's median justice (in the middle of the ideological spectrum, with four justices more liberal and four more conservative than him), making him the ideological center of the Court.[125][126] Tom Goldstein argued in an article in SCOTUSblog in 2010, that the popular view of the Supreme Court as sharply divided along ideological lines and each side pushing an agenda at every turn is "in significant part a caricature designed to fit certain preconceptions".[127] He pointed out that in the 2009 term, almost half the cases were decided unanimously, and only about 20% were decided by a 5-to-4 vote. Barely one in ten cases involved the narrow liberal/conservative divide (fewer if the cases where Sotomayor recused herself are not included). He also pointed to several cases that defied the popular conception of the ideological lines of the Court.[128] Goldstein further argued that the large number of pro-criminal-defendant summary dismissals (usually cases where the justices decide that the lower courts significantly misapplied precedent and reverse the case without briefing or argument) were an illustration that the conservative justices had not been aggressively ideological. Likewise, Goldstein stated that the critique that the liberal justices are more likely to invalidate acts of Congress, show inadequate deference to the political process, and be disrespectful of precedent, also lacked merit: Thomas has most often called for overruling prior precedent (even if long standing) that he views as having been wrongly decided, and during the 2009 term Scalia and Thomas voted most often to invalidate legislation. According to statistics compiled by SCOTUSblog, in the twelve terms from 2000 to 2011, an average of 19 of the opinions on major issues (22%) were decided by a 5–4 vote, with an average of 70% of those split opinions decided by a Court divided along the traditionally perceived ideological lines (about 15% of all opinions issued). Over that period, the conservative bloc has been in the majority about 62% of the time that the Court has divided along ideological lines, which represents about 44% of all the 5–4 decisions.[129] In the October 2010 term, the Court decided 86 cases, including 75 signed opinions and 5 summary reversals (where the Court reverses a lower court without arguments and without issuing an opinion on the case).[130][131] Four were decided with unsigned opinions, two cases affirmed by an equally divided Court, and two cases were dismissed as improvidently granted. Justice Kagan recused herself from 26 of the cases due to her prior role as United States Solicitor General. Of the 80 cases, 38 (about 48%, the highest percentage since the October 2005 term) were decided unanimously (9–0 or 8–0), and 16 decisions were made by a 5–4 vote (about 20%, compared to 18% in the October 2009 term, and 29% in the October 2008 term).[132] However, in fourteen of the sixteen 5–4 decisions, the Court divided along the traditional ideological lines (with Ginsburg, Breyer, Sotomayor, and Kagan on the liberal side, and Roberts, Scalia, Thomas, and Alito on the conservative, and Kennedy providing the "swing vote"). This represents 87% of those 16 cases, the highest rate in the past 10 years. The conservative bloc, joined by Kennedy, formed the majority in 63% of the 5–4 decisions, the highest cohesion rate of that bloc in the Roberts Court.[130][133][134][135][136] The October 2017 term had a low rate of unanimous rulings, with only 39% of the cases decided by unanimous rulings, the lowest percentage since the October 2008 term when 30% of rulings were unanimous.[137] Chief Justice Roberts was in the majority most often (68 out of 73 cases, or 93.2%), with retiring Justice Anthony Kennedy in second (67 out of 73 cases, or 91.8%); this was typical of the Roberts Court, in which Roberts and Kennedy have been in the majority most frequently in all terms except for the 2013 and 2014 terms (though Kennedy was in the top on both those terms).[138] Justice Sotomayor was the justice least likely to be in the majority (in 50 out of 73 cases, or 68.5%). The highest agreement between justices was between Ginsburg and Sotomayor, who agreed on 95.8% of the cases, followed by Thomas and Alito agreeing on 93% of cases. There were 19 cases that were decided by a 5–4 vote (26% of the total cases); 74% of those cases (14 out of 19) broke along ideological lines, and for the first time in the Roberts Court, all of those resulted in a conservative majority, with Roberts, Kennedy, Thomas, Alito, and Gorsuch on the majority.[138] The October 2018 term, which saw the replacement of Anthony Kennedy by Brett Kavanaugh, once again saw a low rate of unanimity: only 28 of 71 decided cases were decided by a unanimous court, about 39% of the cases.[139][140] Of these, only 19 cases had the Justices in total agreement. Chief Justice Roberts was once again the justice most often in the majority (61 out of 72 cases, or 85% of the time). Though Kavanaugh had a higher percentage of times in the majority, he did not participate in all cases, voting in the majority 58 out of 64 times, or 91% of the cases in which he participated. Of the justices who participated in all 72 cases, Kagan and Alito tied in second place, voting in the majority 59 out of 72 times (or 82% of the time). Looking only at cases that were not decided unanimously, Roberts and Kavanaugh were the most frequently in the majority (33 cases, with Roberts being in the majority in 75% of the divided cases, and Kavanaugh in 85% of the divided cases he participated in). Of 20 cases that were decided by a vote of 5–4, eight featured the conservative justices in the majority (Roberts, Thomas, Alito, Gorsuch, and Kavanaugh), and eight had the liberal justices (Ginsburg, Breyer, Sotomayor, and Kagan) joined by a conservative: Gorsuch was the most frequent, joining them four times, and the remaining conservative justices joining the liberals once each. The remaining 4 cases were decided by different coalitions.[140] The highest agreement between justices was between Roberts and Kavanaugh, who agreed at least in judgement 94% of the time; the second highest agreement was again between Ginsburg and Sotomayor, who agreed 93% of the time. The highest rate of full agreement was between Ginsburg and Kagan (82% of the time), closely followed by Roberts and Alito, Ginsburg and Sotomayor, and Breyer and Kagan (81% of the time). The largest rate of disagreement was between Thomas and both Ginsburg and Sotomayor; Thomas disagreed with each of them 50% of the time.[140] Facilities[edit] Main article: United States Supreme Court Building The present U.S. Supreme Court building as viewed from the front From the 1860s until the 1930s, the court sat in the Old Senate Chamber of the U.S. Capitol. The Supreme Court first met on February 1, 1790, at the Merchants' Exchange Building in New York City. When Philadelphia became the capital, the Court met briefly in Independence Hall before settling in Old City Hall from 1791 until 1800. After the government moved to Washington, D.C., the Court occupied various spaces in the United States Capitol building until 1935, when it moved into its own purpose-built home. The four-story building was designed by Cass Gilbert in a classical style sympathetic to the surrounding buildings of the Capitol and Library of Congress, and is clad in marble. The building includes the courtroom, justices' chambers, an extensive law library, various meeting spaces, and auxiliary services including a gymnasium. The Supreme Court building is within the ambit of the Architect of the Capitol, but maintains its own police force separate from the Capitol Police.[141] Located across First Street from the United States Capitol at One First Street NE and Maryland Avenue,[142][143] the building is open to the public from 9 am to 4:30 pm weekdays but closed on weekends and holidays.[142] Visitors may not tour the actual courtroom unaccompanied. There is a cafeteria, a gift shop, exhibits, and a half-hour informational film.[141] When the Court is not in session, lectures about the courtroom are held hourly from 9:30 am to 3:30 pm and reservations are not necessary.[141] When the Court is in session the public may attend oral arguments, which are held twice each morning (and sometimes afternoons) on Mondays, Tuesdays, and Wednesdays in two-week intervals from October through late April, with breaks during December and February. Visitors are seated on a first-come first-served basis. One estimate is there are about 250 seats available.[144] The number of open seats varies from case to case; for important cases, some visitors arrive the day before and wait through the night. From mid-May until the end of June, the court releases orders and opinions beginning at 10 am, and these 15 to 30-minute sessions are open to the public on a similar basis.[141] Supreme Court Police are available to answer questions.[142] Jurisdiction[edit] Inscription on the wall of the Supreme Court Building from Marbury v. Madison, in which Chief Justice John Marshall outlined the concept of judicial review Congress is authorized by Article III of the federal Constitution to regulate the Supreme Court's appellate jurisdiction. The Supreme Court has original and exclusive jurisdiction over cases between two or more states[145] but may decline to hear such cases.[146] It also possesses original but not exclusive jurisdiction to hear "all actions or proceedings to which ambassadors, other public ministers, consuls, or vice consuls of foreign states are parties; all controversies between the United States and a State; and all actions or proceedings by a State against the citizens of another State or against aliens".[147] In 1906, the Court asserted its original jurisdiction to prosecute individuals for contempt of court in United States v. Shipp.[148] The resulting proceeding remains the only contempt proceeding and only criminal trial in the Court's history.[149][150] The contempt proceeding arose from the lynching of Ed Johnson in Chattanooga, Tennessee the evening after Justice John Marshall Harlan granted Johnson a stay of execution to allow his lawyers to file an appeal. Johnson was removed from his jail cell by a lynch mob—aided by the local sheriff who left the prison virtually unguarded—and hung from a bridge, after which a deputy sheriff pinned a note on Johnson's body reading: "To Justice Harlan. Come get your nigger now."[149] The local sheriff, John Shipp, cited the Supreme Court's intervention as the rationale for the lynching. The Court appointed its deputy clerk as special master to preside over the trial in Chattanooga with closing arguments made in Washington before the Supreme Court justices, who found nine individuals guilty of contempt, sentencing three to 90 days in jail and the rest to 60 days in jail.[149][150][151] In all other cases, however, the Court has only appellate jurisdiction, including the ability to issue writs of mandamus and writs of prohibition to lower courts. It considers cases based on its original jurisdiction very rarely; almost all cases are brought to the Supreme Court on appeal. In practice, the only original jurisdiction cases heard by the Court are disputes between two or more states.[citation needed] The Court's appellate jurisdiction consists of appeals from federal courts of appeal (through certiorari, certiorari before judgment, and certified questions),[152] the United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces (through certiorari),[153] the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico (through certiorari),[154] the Supreme Court of the Virgin Islands (through certiorari),[155] the District of Columbia Court of Appeals (through certiorari),[156] and "final judgments or decrees rendered by the highest court of a State in which a decision could be had" (through certiorari).[156] In the last case, an appeal may be made to the Supreme Court from a lower state court if the state's highest court declined to hear an appeal or lacks jurisdiction to hear an appeal. For example, a decision rendered by one of the Florida District Courts of Appeal can be appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court if (a) the Supreme Court of Florida declined to grant certiorari, e.g. Florida Star v. B. J. F., or (b) the district court of appeal issued a per curiam decision simply affirming the lower court's decision without discussing the merits of the case, since the Supreme Court of Florida lacks jurisdiction to hear appeals of such decisions.[157] The power of the Supreme Court to consider appeals from state courts, rather than just federal courts, was created by the Judiciary Act of 1789 and upheld early in the Court's history, by its rulings in Martin v. Hunter's Lessee (1816) and Cohens v. Virginia (1821). The Supreme Court is the only federal court that has jurisdiction over direct appeals from state court decisions, although there are several devices that permit so-called "collateral review" of state cases. It has to be noted that this "collateral review" often only applies to individuals on death row and not through the regular judicial system.[158] Since Article Three of the United States Constitution stipulates that federal courts may only entertain "cases" or "controversies", the Supreme Court cannot decide cases that are moot and it does not render advisory opinions, as the supreme courts of some states may do. For example, in DeFunis v. Odegaard, 416 U.S. 312 (1974), the Court dismissed a lawsuit challenging the constitutionality of a law school affirmative action policy because the plaintiff student had graduated since he began the lawsuit, and a decision from the Court on his claim would not be able to redress any injury he had suffered. However, the Court recognizes some circumstances where it is appropriate to hear a case that is seemingly moot. If an issue is "capable of repetition yet evading review", the Court will address it even though the party before the Court would not themselves be made whole by a favorable result. In Roe v. Wade, 410 U.S. 113 (1973), and other abortion cases, the Court addresses the merits of claims pressed by pregnant women seeking abortions even if they are no longer pregnant because it takes longer than the typical human gestation period to appeal a case through the lower courts to the Supreme Court. Another mootness exception is voluntary cessation of unlawful conduct, in which the Court considers the probability of recurrence and plaintiff's need for relief.[159] Justices as circuit justices[edit] The United States is divided into thirteen circuit courts of appeals, each of which is assigned a "circuit justice" from the Supreme Court. Although this concept has been in continuous existence throughout the history of the republic, its meaning has changed through time. Under the Judiciary Act of 1789, each justice was required to "ride circuit", or to travel within the assigned circuit and consider cases alongside local judges. This practice encountered opposition from many justices, who cited the difficulty of travel. Moreover, there was a potential for a conflict of interest on the Court if a justice had previously decided the same case while riding circuit. Circuit riding ended in 1901, when the Circuit Court of Appeals Act was passed, and circuit riding was officially abolished by Congress in 1911.[160] The circuit justice for each circuit is responsible for dealing with certain types of applications that, under the Court's rules, may be addressed by a single justice. These include applications for emergency stays (including stays of execution in death-penalty cases) and injunctions pursuant to the All Writs Act arising from cases within that circuit, as well as routine requests such as requests for extensions of time. In the past,[when?] circuit justices also sometimes ruled on motions for bail in criminal cases, writs of habeas corpus, and applications for writs of error granting permission to appeal. Ordinarily, a justice will resolve such an application by simply endorsing it "granted" or "denied" or entering a standard form of order. However, the justice may elect to write an opinion—referred to as an in-chambers opinion—in such matters if they wish.[citation needed] A circuit justice may sit as a judge on the Court of Appeals of that circuit, but over the past hundred years, this has rarely occurred. A circuit justice sitting with the Court of Appeals has seniority over the chief judge of the circuit. The chief justice has traditionally been assigned to the District of Columbia Circuit, the Fourth Circuit (which includes Maryland and Virginia, the states surrounding the District of Columbia), and since it was established, the Federal Circuit. Each associate justice is assigned to one or two judicial circuits. As of October 19, 2018, the allotment of the justices among the circuits is as follows:[161] Circuit Justice District of Columbia Circuit Chief Justice Roberts First Circuit Justice Breyer Second Circuit Justice Ginsburg Third Circuit Justice Alito Fourth Circuit Chief Justice Roberts Fifth Circuit Justice Alito Sixth Circuit Justice Sotomayor Seventh Circuit Justice Kavanaugh Eighth Circuit Justice Gorsuch Ninth Circuit Justice Kagan Tenth Circuit Justice Sotomayor Eleventh Circuit Justice Thomas Federal Circuit Chief Justice Roberts Three of the current justices are assigned to circuits on which they previously sat as circuit judges: Chief Justice Roberts (D.C. Circuit), Justice Breyer (First Circuit), and Justice Alito (Third Circuit). Process[edit] Main article: Procedures of the Supreme Court of the United States A term of the Supreme Court commences on the first Monday of each October, and continues until June or early July of the following year. Each term consists of alternating periods of around two weeks known as "sittings" and "recesses". Justices hear cases and deliver rulings during sittings; they discuss cases and write opinions during recesses. Case selection[edit] Nearly all cases come before the court by way of petitions for writs of certiorari, commonly referred to as "cert". The Court may review any case in the federal courts of appeals "by writ of certiorari granted upon the petition of any party to any civil or criminal case".[162] The Court may only review "final judgments rendered by the highest court of a state in which a decision could be had" if those judgments involve a question of federal statutory or constitutional law.[163] The party that appealed to the Court is the petitioner and the non-mover is the respondent. All case names before the Court are styled petitioner v. respondent, regardless of which party initiated the lawsuit in the trial court. For example, criminal prosecutions are brought in the name of the state and against an individual, as in State of Arizona v. Ernesto Miranda. If the defendant is convicted, and his conviction then is affirmed on appeal in the state supreme court, when he petitions for cert the name of the case becomes Miranda v. Arizona. There are situations where the Court has original jurisdiction, such as when two states have a dispute against each other, or when there is a dispute between the United States and a state. In such instances, a case is filed with the Supreme Court directly. Examples of such cases include United States v. Texas, a case to determine whether a parcel of land belonged to the United States or to Texas, and Virginia v. Tennessee, a case turning on whether an incorrectly drawn boundary between two states can be changed by a state court, and whether the setting of the correct boundary requires Congressional approval. Although it has not happened since 1794 in the case of Georgia v. Brailsford,[164] parties in an action at law in which the Supreme Court has original jurisdiction may request that a jury determine issues of fact.[165] Georgia v. Brailsford remains the only case in which the court has empaneled a jury, in this case a special jury.[166] Two other original jurisdiction cases involve colonial era borders and rights under navigable waters in New Jersey v. Delaware, and water rights between riparian states upstream of navigable waters in Kansas v. Colorado. A cert petition is voted on at a session of the court called a conference. A conference is a private meeting of the nine Justices by themselves; the public and the Justices' clerks are excluded. The rule of four permits four of the nine justices to grant a writ of certiorari. If it is granted, the case proceeds to the briefing stage; otherwise, the case ends. Except in death penalty cases and other cases in which the Court orders briefing from the respondent, the respondent may, but is not required to, file a response to the cert petition. The court grants a petition for cert only for "compelling reasons", spelled out in the court's Rule 10. Such reasons include: Resolving a conflict in the interpretation of a federal law or a provision of the federal Constitution Correcting an egregious departure from the accepted and usual course of judicial proceedings Resolving an important question of federal law, or to expressly review a decision of a lower court that conflicts directly with a previous decision of the Court. When a conflict of interpretations arises from differing interpretations of the same law or constitutional provision issued by different federal circuit courts of appeals, lawyers call this situation a "circuit split". If the court votes to deny a cert petition, as it does in the vast majority of such petitions that come before it, it does so typically without comment. A denial of a cert petition is not a judgment on the merits of a case, and the decision of the lower court stands as the case's final ruling. To manage the high volume of cert petitions received by the Court each year (of the more than 7,000 petitions the Court receives each year, it will usually request briefing and hear oral argument in 100 or fewer), the Court employs an internal case management tool known as the "cert pool". Currently, all justices except for Justices Alito and Gorsuch participate in the cert pool.[167][168][169][170] Oral argument[edit] When the Court grants a cert petition, the case is set for oral argument. Both parties will file briefs on the merits of the case, as distinct from the reasons they may have argued for granting or denying the cert petition. With the consent of the parties or approval of the Court, amici curiae, or "friends of the court", may also file briefs. The Court holds two-week oral argument sessions each month from October through April. Each side has thirty minutes to present its argument (the Court may choose to give more time, though this is rare),[171] and during that time, the Justices may interrupt the advocate and ask questions. The petitioner gives the first presentation, and may reserve some time to rebut the respondent's arguments after the respondent has concluded. Amici curiae may also present oral argument on behalf of one party if that party agrees. The Court advises counsel to assume that the Justices are familiar with and have read the briefs filed in a case. Supreme Court bar[edit] In order to plead before the court, an attorney must first be admitted to the court's bar. Approximately 4,000 lawyers join the bar each year. The bar contains an estimated 230,000 members. In reality, pleading is limited to several hundred attorneys. The rest join for a one-time fee of $200, earning the court about $750,000 annually. Attorneys can be admitted as either individuals or as groups. The group admission is held before the current justices of the Supreme Court, wherein the Chief Justice approves a motion to admit the new attorneys.[172] Lawyers commonly apply for the cosmetic value of a certificate to display in their office or on their resume. They also receive access to better seating if they wish to attend an oral argument.[173] Members of the Supreme Court Bar are also granted access to the collections of the Supreme Court Library.[174] Decision[edit] At the conclusion of oral argument, the case is submitted for decision. Cases are decided by majority vote of the Justices. It is the Court's practice to issue decisions in all cases argued in a particular term by the end of that term. Within that term, however, the Court is under no obligation to release a decision within any set time after oral argument. At the conclusion of oral argument, the Justices retire to another conference at which the preliminary votes are tallied, and the most senior Justice in the majority assigns the initial draft of the Court's opinion to a Justice on his or her side. Drafts of the Court's opinion, as well as any concurring or dissenting opinions,[175] circulate among the Justices until the Court is prepared to announce the judgment in a particular case. Since recording devices are banned inside the courtroom of the United States Supreme Court Building, the delivery of the decision to the media is done via paper copies and is known as the Running of the Interns.[176][177] It is possible that, through recusals or vacancies, the Court divides evenly on a case. If that occurs, then the decision of the court below is affirmed, but does not establish binding precedent. In effect, it results in a return to the status quo ante. For a case to be heard, there must be a quorum of at least six justices.[178] If a quorum is not available to hear a case and a majority of qualified justices believes that the case cannot be heard and determined in the next term, then the judgment of the court below is affirmed as if the Court had been evenly divided. For cases brought to the Supreme Court by direct appeal from a United States District Court, the Chief Justice may order the case remanded to the appropriate U.S. Court of Appeals for a final decision there.[179] This has only occurred once in U.S. history, in the case of United States v. Alcoa (1945).[180] Published opinions[edit] The Court's opinions are published in three stages. First, a slip opinion is made available on the Court's web site and through other outlets. Next, several opinions and lists of the court's orders are bound together in paperback form, called a preliminary print of United States Reports, the official series of books in which the final version of the Court's opinions appears. About a year after the preliminary prints are issued, a final bound volume of U.S. Reports is issued. The individual volumes of U.S. Reports are numbered so that users may cite this set of reports (or a competing version published by another commercial legal publisher but containing parallel citations) to allow those who read their pleadings and other briefs to find the cases quickly and easily. As of January 2019[update], there are: Final bound volumes of U.S. Reports: 569 volumes, covering cases through June 13, 2013 (part of the October 2012 term).[181][182] Slip opinions: 21 volumes (565–585 for 2011–2017 terms, three two-part volumes each), plus part 1 of volume 586 (2018 term).[183] As of March 2012[update], the U.S. Reports have published a total of 30,161 Supreme Court opinions, covering the decisions handed down from February 1790 to March 2012.[citation needed] This figure does not reflect the number of cases the Court has taken up, as several cases can be addressed by a single opinion (see, for example, Parents v. Seattle, where Meredith v. Jefferson County Board of Education was also decided in the same opinion; by a similar logic, Miranda v. Arizona actually decided not only Miranda but also three other cases: Vignera v. New York, Westover v. United States, and California v. Stewart). A more unusual example is The Telephone Cases, which are a single set of interlinked opinions that take up the entire 126th volume of the U.S. Reports. Opinions are also collected and published in two unofficial, parallel reporters: Supreme Court Reporter, published by West (now a part of Thomson Reuters), and United States Supreme Court Reports, Lawyers' Edition (simply known as Lawyers' Edition), published by LexisNexis. In court documents, legal periodicals and other legal media, case citations generally contain cites from each of the three reporters; for example, citation to Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission is presented as Citizens United v. Federal Election Com'n, 585 U.S. 50, 130 S. Ct. 876, 175 L. Ed. 2d 753 (2010), with "S. Ct." representing the Supreme Court Reporter, and "L. Ed." representing the Lawyers' Edition.[184][185] Citations to published opinions[edit] Further information: Case citation § Supreme Court of the United States Lawyers use an abbreviated format to cite cases, in the form "vol U.S. page, pin (year)", where vol is the volume number, page is the page number on which the opinion begins, and year is the year in which the case was decided. Optionally, pin is used to "pinpoint" to a specific page number within the opinion. For instance, the citation for Roe v. Wade is 410 U.S. 113 (1973), which means the case was decided in 1973 and appears on page 113 of volume 410 of U.S. Reports. For opinions or orders that have not yet been published in the preliminary print, the volume and page numbers may be replaced with "___". Institutional powers and constraints[edit] The Federal court system and the judicial authority to interpret the Constitution received little attention in the debates over the drafting and ratification of the Constitution. The power of judicial review, in fact, is nowhere mentioned in it. Over the ensuing years, the question of whether the power of judicial review was even intended by the drafters of the Constitution was quickly frustrated by the lack of evidence bearing on the question either way.[186] Nevertheless, the power of judiciary to overturn laws and executive actions it determines are unlawful or unconstitutional is a well-established precedent. Many of the Founding Fathers accepted the notion of judicial review; in Federalist No. 78, Alexander Hamilton wrote: "A Constitution is, in fact, and must be regarded by the judges, as a fundamental law. It therefore belongs to them to ascertain its meaning, as well as the meaning of any particular act proceeding from the legislative body. If there should happen to be an irreconcilable variance between the two, that which has the superior obligation and validity ought, of course, to be preferred; or, in other words, the Constitution ought to be preferred to the statute." The Supreme Court firmly established its power to declare laws unconstitutional in Marbury v. Madison (1803), consummating the American system of checks and balances. In explaining the power of judicial review, Chief Justice John Marshall stated that the authority to interpret the law was the particular province of the courts, part of the duty of the judicial department to say what the law is. His contention was not that the Court had privileged insight into constitutional requirements, but that it was the constitutional duty of the judiciary, as well as the other branches of government, to read and obey the dictates of the Constitution.[186] Since the founding of the republic, there has been a tension between the practice of judicial review and the democratic ideals of egalitarianism, self-government, self-determination and freedom of conscience. At one pole are those who view the Federal Judiciary and especially the Supreme Court as being "the most separated and least checked of all branches of government".[187] Indeed, federal judges and justices on the Supreme Court are not required to stand for election by virtue of their tenure "during good behavior", and their pay may "not be diminished" while they hold their position (Section 1 of Article Three). Though subject to the process of impeachment, only one Justice has ever been impeached and no Supreme Court Justice has been removed from office. At the other pole are those who view the judiciary as the least dangerous branch, with little ability to resist the exhortations of the other branches of government.[186] The Supreme Court, it is noted, cannot directly enforce its rulings; instead, it relies on respect for the Constitution and for the law for adherence to its judgments. One notable instance of nonacquiescence came in 1832, when the state of Georgia ignored the Supreme Court's decision in Worcester v. Georgia. President Andrew Jackson, who sided with the Georgia courts, is supposed to have remarked, "John Marshall has made his decision; now let him enforce it!";[188] however, this alleged quotation has been disputed.[citation needed] Some state governments in the South also resisted the desegregation of public schools after the 1954 judgment Brown v. Board of Education. More recently, many feared that President Nixon would refuse to comply with the Court's order in United States v. Nixon (1974) to surrender the Watergate tapes.[189][citation needed] Nixon, however, ultimately complied with the Supreme Court's ruling. Supreme Court decisions can be (and have been) purposefully overturned by constitutional amendment, which has happened on five occasions: Chisholm v. Georgia (1793) – overturned by the Eleventh Amendment (1795) Dred Scott v. Sandford (1857) – overturned by the Thirteenth Amendment (1865) and the Fourteenth Amendment (1868) Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co. (1895) – overturned by the Sixteenth Amendment (1913) Minor v. Happersett (1875) – overturned by the Nineteenth Amendment (1920) Oregon v. Mitchell (1970) – overturned by the Twenty-sixth Amendment (1971) When the Court rules on matters involving the interpretation of laws rather than of the Constitution, simple legislative action can reverse the decisions (for example, in 2009 Congress passed the Lilly Ledbetter act, superseding the limitations given in Ledbetter v. Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. in 2007). Also, the Supreme Court is not immune from political and institutional consideration: lower federal courts and state courts sometimes resist doctrinal innovations, as do law enforcement officials.[190] In addition, the other two branches can restrain the Court through other mechanisms. Congress can increase the number of justices, giving the President power to influence future decisions by appointments (as in Roosevelt's Court Packing Plan discussed above). Congress can pass legislation that restricts the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court and other federal courts over certain topics and cases: this is suggested by language in Section 2 of Article Three, where the appellate jurisdiction is granted "with such Exceptions, and under such Regulations as the Congress shall make." The Court sanctioned such congressional action in the Reconstruction case ex parte McCardle (1869), though it rejected Congress' power to dictate how particular cases must be decided in United States v. Klein (1871). On the other hand, through its power of judicial review, the Supreme Court has defined the scope and nature of the powers and separation between the legislative and executive branches of the federal government; for example, in United States v. Curtiss-Wright Export Corp. (1936), Dames & Moore v. Regan (1981), and notably in Goldwater v. Carter (1979), (where it effectively gave the Presidency the power to terminate ratified treaties without the consent of Congress). The Court's decisions can also impose limitations on the scope of Executive authority, as in Humphrey's Executor v. United States (1935), the Steel Seizure Case (1952), and United States v. Nixon (1974). Law clerks[edit] Further information: List of law clerks of the Supreme Court of the United States Each Supreme Court justice hires several law Clerks to review petitions for writ of certiorari, research them, prepare bench memorandums, and draft opinions. Associate justices are allowed four clerks. The chief justice is allowed five clerks, but Chief Justice Rehnquist hired only three per year, and Chief Justice Roberts usually hires only four.[191] Generally, law clerks serve a term of one to two years. The first law clerk was hired by Associate Justice Horace Gray in 1882.[191][192] Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr. and Louis Brandeis were the first Supreme Court justices to use recent law school graduates as clerks, rather than hiring a "stenographer-secretary".[193] Most law clerks are recent law school graduates. The first female clerk was Lucile Lomen, hired in 1944 by Justice William O. Douglas.[191] The first African-American, William T. Coleman, Jr., was hired in 1948 by Justice Felix Frankfurter.[191] A disproportionately large number of law clerks have obtained law degrees from elite law schools, especially Harvard, Yale, the University of Chicago, Columbia, and Stanford. From 1882 to 1940, 62% of law clerks were graduates of Harvard Law School.[191] Those chosen to be Supreme Court law clerks usually have graduated in the top of their law school class and were often an editor of the law review or a member of the moot court board. By the mid-1970s, clerking previously for a judge in a federal court of appeals had also become a prerequisite to clerking for a Supreme Court justice.[194] Eight Supreme Court justices previously clerked for other justices: Byron White for Frederick M. Vinson, John Paul Stevens for Wiley Rutledge, William Rehnquist for Robert H. Jackson, Stephen Breyer for Arthur Goldberg, John Roberts for William Rehnquist, Elena Kagan for Thurgood Marshall, Neil Gorsuch for both Byron White and Anthony Kennedy, and Brett Kavanaugh for Kennedy. Justices Gorsuch and Kavanaugh served under Kennedy during the same term. Gorsuch is the first justice to serve alongside a justice for whom he or she clerked. With the confirmation of Justice Kavanaugh, for the first time a majority of the Supreme Court is composed of former Supreme Court law clerks (Roberts, Breyer, Kagan, Gorsuch and Kavanaugh). Several current Supreme Court justices have also clerked in the federal courts of appeals: John Roberts for Judge Henry Friendly of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, Justice Samuel Alito for Judge Leonard I. Garth of the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, Elena Kagan for Judge Abner J. Mikva of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, Neil Gorsuch for Judge David B. Sentelle of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, and Brett Kavanaugh for Judge Walter Stapleton of the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit and Judge Alex Kozinski of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. Politicization of the Court[edit] Clerks hired by each of the justices of the Supreme Court are often given considerable leeway in the opinions they draft. "Supreme Court clerkship appeared to be a nonpartisan institution from the 1940s into the 1980s," according to a study published in 2009 by the law review of Vanderbilt University Law School.[195][196] "As law has moved closer to mere politics, political affiliations have naturally and predictably become proxies for the different political agendas that have been pressed in and through the courts," former federal court of appeals judge J. Michael Luttig said.[195] David J. Garrow, professor of history at the University of Cambridge, stated that the Court had thus begun to mirror the political branches of government. "We are getting a composition of the clerk workforce that is getting to be like the House of Representatives," Professor Garrow said. "Each side is putting forward only ideological purists."[195] According to the Vanderbilt Law Review study, this politicized hiring trend reinforces the impression that the Supreme Court is "a superlegislature responding to ideological arguments rather than a legal institution responding to concerns grounded in the rule of law".[195] A poll conducted in June 2012 by The New York Times and CBS News showed just 44% of Americans approve of the job the Supreme Court is doing. Three-quarters said justices' decisions are sometimes influenced by their political or personal views.[197] Criticism[edit] The Supreme Court has been the object of criticisms on a range of issues. Among them: Judicial activism[edit] The Supreme Court has been criticized for not keeping within Constitutional bounds by engaging in judicial activism, rather than merely interpreting law and exercising judicial restraint. Claims of judicial activism are not confined to any particular ideology.[198] An often cited example of conservative judicial activism is the 1905 decision in Lochner v. New York, which has been criticized by many prominent thinkers, including Robert Bork, Justice Antonin Scalia, and Chief Justice John Roberts,[198][199] and which was reversed in the 1930s.[200][201][202] An often cited example of liberal judicial activism is Roe v. Wade (1973), which legalized abortion on the basis of the "right to privacy" inferred from the Fourteenth Amendment, a reasoning that some critics argued was circuitous.[198] Legal scholars,[203][204] justices,[205] and presidential candidates[206] have criticized the Roe decision. The progressive Brown v. Board of Education decision has been criticized by conservatives such as Patrick Buchanan[207] and former presidential contender Barry Goldwater.[208] More recently, Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission was criticized for expanding upon the precedent in First National Bank of Boston v. Bellotti (1978) that the First Amendment applies to corporations.[209] President Abraham Lincoln warned, referring to the Dred Scott decision, that if government policy became "irrevocably fixed by decisions of the Supreme Court...the people will have ceased to be their own rulers."[210] Former justice Thurgood Marshall justified judicial activism with these words: "You do what you think is right and let the law catch up."[211] During different historical periods, the Court has leaned in different directions.[212][213] Critics from both sides complain that activist-judges abandon the Constitution and substitute their own views instead.[214][215][216] Critics include writers such as Andrew Napolitano,[217] Phyllis Schlafly,[218] Mark R. Levin,[219] Mark I. Sutherland,[220] and James MacGregor Burns.[221][222] Past presidents from both parties have attacked judicial activism, including Franklin D. Roosevelt, Richard Nixon, and Ronald Reagan.[223][224] Failed Supreme Court nominee Robert Bork wrote: "What judges have wrought is a coup d'état, – slow-moving and genteel, but a coup d'état nonetheless."[225]Former senator Al Franken quipped that when politicians talk about judicial activism, "their definition of an activist judge is one who votes differently than they would like."[226] Brian Leiter wrote that "Given the complexity of the law and the complexity involved in saying what really happened in a given dispute, all judges, and especially those on the Supreme Court, often have to exercise a quasi-legislative power," and "Supreme Court nominations are controversial because the court is a super-legislature, and because its moral and political judgments are controversial."[227] Failing to protect individual rights[edit] Court decisions have been criticized for failing to protect individual rights: the Dred Scott (1857) decision upheld slavery;[228] Plessy v Ferguson (1896) upheld segregation under the doctrine of separate but equal;[229] Kelo v. City of New London (2005) was criticized by prominent politicians, including New Jersey governor Jon Corzine, as undermining property rights.[230][231] Some critics suggest the 2009 bench with a conservative majority has "become increasingly hostile to voters" by siding with Indiana's voter identification laws which tend to "disenfranchise large numbers of people without driver's licenses, especially poor and minority voters", according to one report.[232] Senator Al Franken criticized the Court for "eroding individual rights".[226] However, others argue that the Court is too protective of some individual rights, particularly those of people accused of crimes or in detention. For example, Chief Justice Warren Burger was an outspoken critic of the exclusionary rule, and Justice Scalia criticized the Court's decision in Boumediene v. Bush for being too protective of the rights of Guantanamo detainees, on the grounds that habeas corpus was "limited" to sovereign territory.[233] Too much power[edit] This criticism is related to complaints about judicial activism. George Will wrote that the Court has an "increasingly central role in American governance".[234] It was criticized for intervening in bankruptcy proceedings regarding ailing carmaker Chrysler Corporation in 2009.[235] A reporter wrote that "Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg's intervention in the Chrysler bankruptcy" left open the "possibility of further judicial review" but argued overall that the intervention was a proper use of Supreme Court power to check the executive branch.[235] Warren E. Burger, before becoming Chief Justice, argued that since the Supreme Court has such "unreviewable power" it is likely to "self-indulge itself" and unlikely to "engage in dispassionate analysis".[236] Larry Sabato wrote "excessive authority has accrued to the federal courts, especially the Supreme Court."[237] Courts are a poor check on executive power[edit] British constitutional scholar Adam Tomkins sees flaws in the American system of having courts (and specifically the Supreme Court) act as checks on the Executive and Legislative branches; he argues that because the courts must wait, sometimes for years, for cases to navigate their way through the system, their ability to restrain other branches is severely weakened.[238][239] In contrast, other countries have dedicated Constitutionals Courts that have original jurisdiction on constitutional claims brought by persons or political institutions; for example, the Federal Constitutional Court of Germany, which can declare a law unconstitutional when challenged. Federal versus state power[edit] There has been debate throughout American history about the boundary between federal and state power. While Framers such as James Madison[240] and Alexander Hamilton[241] argued in The Federalist Papers that their then-proposed Constitution would not infringe on the power of state governments,[242][243][244][245] others argue that expansive federal power is good and consistent with the Framers' wishes.[246] The Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution explicitly grants "powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people." The Court has been criticized for giving the federal government too much power to interfere with state authority. One criticism is that it has allowed the federal government to misuse the Commerce Clause by upholding regulations and legislation which have little to do with interstate commerce, but that were enacted under the guise of regulating interstate commerce; and by voiding state legislation for allegedly interfering with interstate commerce. For example, the Commerce Clause was used by the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals to uphold the Endangered Species Act, thus protecting six endemic species of insect near Austin, Texas, despite the fact that the insects had no commercial value and did not travel across state lines; the Supreme Court let that ruling stand without comment in 2005.[247] Chief Justice John Marshall asserted Congress's power over interstate commerce was "complete in itself, may be exercised to its utmost extent, and acknowledges no limitations, other than are prescribed in the Constitution".[248] Justice Alito said congressional authority under the Commerce Clause is "quite broad".[249] Modern day theorist Robert B. Reich suggests debate over the Commerce Clause continues today.[248] Advocates of states' rights such as constitutional scholar Kevin Gutzman have also criticized the Court, saying it has misused the Fourteenth Amendment to undermine state authority. Justice Brandeis, in arguing for allowing the states to operate without federal interference, suggested that states should be laboratories of democracy.[250] One critic wrote "the great majority of Supreme Court rulings of unconstitutionality involve state, not federal, law."[251] However, others see the Fourteenth Amendment as a positive force that extends "protection of those rights and guarantees to the state level".[252] More recently, the issue of federal power is central in the prosecution of Gamble v. United States, which is examining the doctrine of "separate sovereigns", whereby a criminal defendant can be prosecuted by a state court and then by a federal court.[253][254] Secretive proceedings[edit] The Court has been criticized for keeping its deliberations hidden from public view.[255] According to a review of Jeffrey Toobin's 2007 expose The Nine: Inside the Secret World of the Supreme Court; "Its inner workings are difficult for reporters to cover, like a closed 'cartel', only revealing itself through 'public events and printed releases, with nothing about its inner workings.'[256] The reviewer writes: "few (reporters) dig deeply into court affairs. It all works very neatly; the only ones hurt are the American people, who know little about nine individuals with enormous power over their lives."[256] Larry Sabato complains about the Court's "insularity".[237] A Fairleigh Dickinson University poll conducted in 2010 found that 61% of American voters agreed that televising Court hearings would "be good for democracy", and 50% of voters stated they would watch Court proceedings if they were televised.[257][258] More recently, several justices have appeared on television, written books and made public statements to journalists.[259][260] In a 2009 interview on C-SPAN, journalists Joan Biskupic (of USA Today) and Lyle Denniston (of SCOTUSblog) argued that the Court is a "very open" institution with only the justices' private conferences inaccessible to others.[259] In October 2010, the Court began the practice of posting on its website recordings and transcripts of oral arguments on the Friday after they occur. Judicial interference in political disputes[edit] Some Court decisions have been criticized for injecting the Court into the political arena, and deciding questions that are the purview of the other two branches of government. The Bush v. Gore decision, in which the Supreme Court intervened in the 2000 presidential election and effectively chose George W. Bush over Al Gore, has been criticized extensively, particularly by liberals.[256][261][262][263][264][265] Another example are Court decisions on apportionment and re-districting: in Baker v. Carr, the court decided it could rule on apportionment questions; Justice Frankfurter in a "scathing dissent" argued against the court wading into so-called political questions.[266] Not choosing enough cases to review[edit] Senator Arlen Specter said the Court should "decide more cases".[226] On the other hand, although Justice Scalia acknowledged in a 2009 interview that the number of cases that the Court hears now is smaller today than when he first joined the Supreme Court, he also stated that he has not changed his standards for deciding whether to review a case, nor does he believe his colleagues have changed their standards. He attributed the high volume of cases in the late 1980s, at least in part, to an earlier flurry of new federal legislation that was making its way through the courts.[259] Lifetime tenure[edit] Critic Larry Sabato wrote: "The insularity of lifetime tenure, combined with the appointments of relatively young attorneys who give long service on the bench, produces senior judges representing the views of past generations better than views of the current day."[237] Sanford Levinson has been critical of justices who stayed in office despite medical deterioration based on longevity.[267] James MacGregor Burns stated lifelong tenure has "produced a critical time lag, with the Supreme Court institutionally almost always behind the times".[221] Proposals to solve these problems include term limits for justices, as proposed by Levinson[268] and Sabato[237][269] as well as a mandatory retirement age proposed by Richard Epstein,[270] among others.[271] However, others suggest lifetime tenure brings substantial benefits, such as impartiality and freedom from political pressure. Alexander Hamilton in Federalist 78 wrote "nothing can contribute so much to its firmness and independence as permanency in office."[272] Accepting gifts and outside income[edit] The 21st century has seen increased scrutiny of justices accepting expensive gifts and travel. All of the members of the Roberts Court have accepted travel or gifts.[273] In 2012, Justice Sonia Sotomayor received $1.9 million in advances from her publisher Knopf Doubleday.[274] Justice Scalia and others took dozens of expensive trips to exotic locations paid for by private donors.[275] Private events sponsored by partisan groups that are attended by both the justices and those who have an interest in their decisions have raised concerns about access and inappropriate communications.[276] Stephen Spaulding, the legal director at Common Cause, said: "There are fair questions raised by some of these trips about their commitment to being impartial."[275] See also[edit] Politics portal United States portal Law portal Judicial appointment history for United States federal courts List of presidents of the United States by judicial appointments List of law schools attended by United States Supreme Court Justices Lists of United States Supreme Court cases Oyez Project Reporter of Decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States Landmark Supreme Court decisions (selection)[edit] See also: List of landmark court decisions in the United States Marbury v. Madison (1803, judicial review) McCulloch v. Maryland (1819, implied powers) Gibbons v. Ogden (1824, interstate commerce) Worcester v. Georgia (1832, Indian policy) Dred Scott v. Sandford (1857, slavery) Plessy v. Ferguson (1896, separate but equal treatment of races) Wickard v. Filburn (1942, federal regulation of economic activity) Brown v. Board of Education (1954, school segregation of races) Engel v. Vitale (1962, state-sponsored prayers in public schools) Abington School District v. Schempp (1963, Bible readings and recitation of the Lord's prayer in U.S. public schools) Gideon v. Wainwright (1963, right to an attorney) Griswold v. Connecticut (1965, privacy in marriage) Miranda v. Arizona (1966, rights of those detained by police) In re Gault (1967, rights of juvenile suspects) Loving v. Virginia (1967, interracial marriage) Lemon v. Kurtzman (1971, religious activities in public schools) New York Times Co. v. United States (1971, freedom of the press) Eisenstadt v. Baird (1972, privacy for unmarried people) Roe v. Wade (1973, abortion) Miller v. California (1973, obscenity) United States v. Nixon (1974, executive privilege) Buckley v. Valeo (1976, campaign finance) Bowers v. Hardwick (1986, sodomy) Bush v. Gore (2000, presidential election) Lawrence v. Texas (2003, sodomy, privacy) District of Columbia v. Heller (2008, gun rights) Citizens United v. FEC (2010, campaign finance) United States v. Windsor (2013, same-sex marriage) Shelby County v. Holder (2013, voting rights) Obergefell v. Hodges (2015, same-sex marriage) References[edit] ^ Lawson, Gary; Seidman, Guy (2001). "When Did the Constitution Become Law?". Notre Dame Law Review. 77: 1–37. ^ U.S. Constitution, Article III, Section 2. This was narrowed by the Eleventh Amendment to exclude suits against states that are brought by persons who are not citizens of that state. ^ "About the Supreme Court". Washington, D.C.: Administrative Office of the United States Courts. Retrieved September 3, 2018. ^ Turley, Jonathan. "Essays on Article III: Good Behavior Clause". Heritage Guide to the Constitution. Washington, D.C.: The Heritage Foundation. Retrieved September 3, 2018. ^ Pushaw Jr., Robert J. "Essays on Article III: Judicial Vesting Clause". Heritage Guide to the Constitution. Washington, D.C.: The Heritage Foundation. Retrieved September 3, 2018. ^ Watson, Bradley C. S. "Essays on Article III: Supreme Court". Heritage Guide to the Constitution. Washington, D.C.: The Heritage Foundation. Retrieved September 3, 2018. ^ a b "The Court as an Institution". Washington, D.C.: Supreme Court of the United States. Retrieved September 3, 2018. ^ "Supreme Court Nominations: present–1789". Washington, D.C.: Office of the Secretary, United States Senate. Retrieved September 3, 2018. ^ Hodak, George (February 1, 2011). "February 2, 1790: Supreme Court Holds Inaugural Session". abajournal.com. Chicago, Illinois: American Bar Association. Retrieved September 3, 2018. ^ Pigott, Robert (2014). New York's Legal Landmarks: A Guide to Legal Edifices, Institutions, Lore, History, and Curiosities on the City's Streets. New York: Attorney Street Editions. p. 7. ISBN 978-0-61599-283-9. ^ "Building History". Washington, D.C.: Supreme Court of the United States. Retrieved September 3, 2018. ^ Ashmore, Anne (August 2006). "Dates of Supreme Court decisions and arguments, United States Reports volumes 2–107 (1791–82)" (PDF). Library, Supreme Court of the United States. Retrieved April 26, 2009. ^ Shugerman, Jed. "A Six-Three Rule: Reviving Consensus and Deference on the Supreme Court". Georgia Law Review. 37: 893. ^ Irons, Peter. A People's History of the Supreme Court, p. 101 (Penguin 2006). ^ Scott Douglas Gerber, ed. (1998). "Seriatim: The Supreme Court Before John Marshall". New York University Press. p. 3. ISBN 0-8147-3114-7. Retrieved October 31, 2009. Finally many scholars cite the absence of a separate Supreme Court building as evidence that the early Court lacked prestige. ^ Manning, John F. (2004). "The Eleventh Amendment and the Reading of Precise Constitutional Texts". Yale Law Journal. 113 (8): 1663–1750. doi:10.2307/4135780. JSTOR 4135780. ^ Epps, Garrett (October 24, 2004). "Don't Do It, Justices". The Washington Post. Retrieved October 31, 2009. The court's prestige has been hard-won. In the early 1800s, Chief Justice John Marshall made the court respected ^ The Supreme Court had first used the power of judicial review in the case Ware v. Hylton, (1796), wherein it overturned a state law that conflicted with a treaty between the United States and Great Britain. ^ Rosen, Jeffrey (July 5, 2009). "Black Robe Politics" (book review of Packing the Court by James MacGregor Burns). The Washington Post. Retrieved October 31, 2009. From the beginning, Burns continues, the Court has established its "supremacy" over the president and Congress because of Chief Justice John Marshall's "brilliant political coup" in Marbury v. Madison (1803): asserting a power to strike down unconstitutional laws. ^ "The People's Vote: 100 Documents that Shaped America – Marbury v. Madison (1803)". U.S. News & World Report. 2003. Archived from the original on September 20, 2003. Retrieved October 31, 2009. With his decision in Marbury v. Madison, Chief Justice John Marshall established the principle of judicial review, an important addition to the system of "checks and balances" created to prevent any one branch of the Federal Government from becoming too powerful...A Law repugnant to the Constitution is void. ^ Sloan, Cliff; McKean, David (February 21, 2009). "Why Marbury V. Madison Still Matters". Newsweek. Retrieved October 31, 2009. More than 200 years after the high court ruled, the decision in that landmark case continues to resonate. ^ "The Constitution in Law: Its Phases Construed by the Federal Supreme Court" (PDF). The New York Times. February 27, 1893. Retrieved October 31, 2009. The decision … in Martin vs. Hunter's Lessee is the authority on which lawyers and Judges have rested the doctrine that where there is in question, in the highest court of a State, and decided adversely to the validity of a State statute... such claim is reviewable by the Supreme Court ... ^ Ginsburg, Ruth Bader; Stevens, John P.; Souter, David; Breyer, Stephen (December 13, 2000). "Dissenting opinions in Bush v. Gore". USA Today. Archived from the original on May 25, 2010. Retrieved December 8, 2019. Rarely has this Court rejected outright an interpretation of state law by a state high court … The Virginia court refused to obey this Court's Fairfax's Devisee mandate to enter judgment for the British subject's successor in interest. That refusal led to the Court's pathmarking decision in Martin v. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304 (1816). ^ a b "Decisions of the Supreme Court – Historic Decrees Issued in One Hundred an Eleven Years" (PDF). The New York Times. February 3, 1901. Retrieved October 31, 2009. Very important also was the decision in Martin vs. Hunter's lessee, in which the court asserted its authority to overrule, within certain limits, the decisions of the highest State courts. ^ a b "The Supreme Quiz". The Washington Post. October 2, 2000. Archived from the original on May 30, 2012. Retrieved October 31, 2009. According to the Oxford Companion to the Supreme Court of the United States, Marshall's most important innovation was to persuade the other justices to stop seriatim opinions—each issuing one—so that the court could speak in a single voice. Since the mid-1940s, however, there's been a significant increase in individual "concurring" and "dissenting" opinions. ^ Slater, Dan (April 18, 2008). "Justice Stevens on the Death Penalty: A Promise of Fairness Unfulfilled". The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved October 31, 2009. The first Chief Justice, John Marshall set out to do away with seriatim opinions–a practice originating in England in which each appellate judge writes an opinion in ruling on a single case. (You may have read old tort cases in law school with such opinions). Marshall sought to do away with this practice to help build the Court into a coequal branch. ^ Suddath, Claire (December 19, 2008). "A Brief History of Impeachment". Time. Retrieved October 31, 2009. Congress tried the process again in 1804, when it voted to impeach Supreme Court Justice Samuel Chase on charges of bad conduct. As a judge, Chase was overzealous and notoriously unfair … But Chase never committed a crime—he was just incredibly bad at his job. The Senate acquitted him on every count. ^ Greenhouse, Linda (April 10, 1996). "Rehnquist Joins Fray on Rulings, Defending Judicial Independence". The New York Times. Retrieved October 31, 2009. the 1805 Senate trial of Justice Samuel Chase, who had been impeached by the House of Representatives … This decision by the Senate was enormously important in securing the kind of judicial independence contemplated by Article III" of the Constitution, Chief Justice Rehnquist said ^ Edward Keynes; Randall K. Miller (1989). "The Court vs. Congress: Prayer, Busing, and Abortion". Duke University Press. Retrieved October 31, 2009. (page 115)... Grier maintained that Congress has plenary power to limit the federal courts' jurisdiction. ^ Ifill, Sherrilyn A. (May 27, 2009). "Sotomayor's Great Legal Mind Long Ago Defeated Race, Gender Nonsense". U.S. News & World Report. Retrieved October 31, 2009. But his decision in Dred Scott v. Sandford doomed thousands of black slaves and freedmen to a stateless existence within the United States until the passage of the 14th Amendment. Justice Taney's coldly self-fulfilling statement in Dred Scott, that blacks had "no rights which the white man [was] bound to respect," has ensured his place in history—not as a brilliant jurist, but as among the most insensitive ^ Irons, Peter (2006). A People's History of the Supreme Court: The Men and Women Whose Cases and Decisions Have Shaped Our Constitution. United States: Penguin Books. pp. 176–177. ISBN 978-0-14-303738-5. The rhetorical battle that followed the Dred Scott decision, as we know, later erupted into the gunfire and bloodshed of the Civil War (p. 176)... his opinion (Taney's) touched off an explosive reaction on both sides of the slavery issue... (p. 177) ^ "Liberty of Contract?". Exploring Constitutional Conflicts. October 31, 2009. Archived from the original on November 22, 2009. Retrieved October 31, 2009. The term "substantive due process" is often used to describe the approach first used in Lochner—the finding of liberties not explicitly protected by the text of the Constitution to be impliedly protected by the liberty clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. In the 1960s, long after the Court repudiated its Lochner line of cases, substantive due process became the basis for protecting personal rights such as the right of privacy, the right to maintain intimate family relationships. ^ "Adair v. United States 208 U.S. 161". Cornell University Law School. 1908. Retrieved October 31, 2009. No. 293 Argued: October 29, 30, 1907 – Decided: January 27, 1908 ^ Bodenhamer, David J.; James W. Ely (1993). The Bill of Rights in modern America. Bloomington, Indiana: Indiana University Press. p. 245. ISBN 978-0-253-35159-3. … of what eventually became the 'incorporation doctrine,' by which various federal Bill of Rights guarantees were held to be implicit in the Fourteenth Amendment due process or equal protection. ^ White, Edward Douglass. "Opinion for the Court, Arver v. U.S. 245 U.S. 366". Finally, as we are unable to conceive upon what theory the exaction by government from the citizen of the performance of his supreme and noble duty of contributing to the defense of the rights and honor of the nation, as the result of a war declared by the great representative body of the people, can be said to be the imposition of involuntary servitude in violation of the prohibitions of the Thirteenth Amendment, we are constrained to the conclusion that the contention to that effect is refuted by its mere statement. ^ Siegan, Bernard H. (1987). The Supreme Court's Constitution. Transaction Publishers. p. 146. ISBN 978-0-88738-671-8. Retrieved October 31, 2009. In the 1923 case of Adkins v. Children's Hospital, the court invalidated a classification based on gender as inconsistent with the substantive due process requirements of the fifth amendment. At issue was congressional legislation providing for the fixing of minimum wages for women and minors in the District of Columbia. (p. 146) ^ Biskupic, Joan (March 29, 2005). "Supreme Court gets makeover". USA Today. Retrieved October 31, 2009. The building is getting its first renovation since its completion in 1935. ^ Justice Roberts (September 21, 2005). "Responses of Judge John G. Roberts, Jr. to the Written Questions of Senator Joseph R. Biden" (PDF). The Washington Post. Retrieved October 31, 2009. I agree that West Coast Hotel Co. v. Parrish correctly overruled Adkins. Lochner era cases—Adkins in particular—evince an expansive view of the judicial role inconsistent with what I believe to be the appropriately more limited vision of the Framers. ^ Lipsky, Seth (October 22, 2009). "All the News That's Fit to Subsidize". Wall Street Journal. Retrieved October 31, 2009. He was a farmer in Ohio ... during the 1930s, when subsidies were brought in for farmers. With subsidies came restrictions on how much wheat one could grow—even, Filburn learned in a landmark Supreme Court case, Wickard v. Filburn (1942), wheat grown on his modest farm. ^ Cohen, Adam (December 14, 2004). "What's New in the Legal World? A Growing Campaign to Undo the New Deal". The New York Times. Retrieved October 31, 2009. Some prominent states' rights conservatives were asking the court to overturn Wickard v. Filburn, a landmark ruling that laid out an expansive view of Congress's power to legislate in the public interest. Supporters of states' rights have always blamed Wickard ... for paving the way for strong federal action... ^ "Justice Black Dies at 85; Served on Court 34 Years". The New York Times. United Press International (UPI). September 25, 1971. Retrieved October 31, 2009. Justice Black developed his controversial theory, first stated in a lengthy, scholarly dissent in 1947, that the due process clause applied the first eight amendments of the Bill of Rights to the states. ^ "100 Documents that Shaped America Brown v. Board of Education (1954)". U.S. News & World Report. May 17, 1954. Archived from the original on November 6, 2009. Retrieved October 31, 2009. On May 17, 1954, U.S. Supreme Court Justice Earl Warren delivered the unanimous ruling in the landmark civil rights case Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka, Kansas. State-sanctioned segregation of public schools was a violation of the 14th amendment and was therefore unconstitutional. This historic decision marked the end of the "separate but equal" … and served as a catalyst for the expanding civil rights movement... ^ "Essay: In defense of privacy". Time. July 15, 1966. Retrieved October 31, 2009. The biggest legal milestone in this field was last year's Supreme Court decision in Griswold v. Connecticut, which overthrew the state's law against the use of contraceptives as an invasion of marital privacy, and for the first time declared the "right of privacy" to be derived from the Constitution itself. ^ Gibbs, Nancy (December 9, 1991). "America's Holy War". Time. Retrieved October 31, 2009. In the landmark 1962 case Engel v. Vitale, the high court threw out a brief nondenominational prayer composed by state officials that was recommended for use in New York State schools. "It is no part of the business of government," ruled the court, "to compose official prayers for any group of the American people to recite." ^ Mattox, William R., Jr; Trinko, Katrina (August 17, 2009). "Teach the Bible? Of course". USA Today. Archived from the original on August 20, 2009. Retrieved October 31, 2009. Public schools need not proselytize—indeed, must not—in teaching students about the Good Book … In Abington School District v. Schempp, decided in 1963, the Supreme Court stated that "study of the Bible or of religion, when presented objectively as part of a secular program of education," was permissible under the First Amendment. ^ "The Law: The Retroactivity Riddle". Time. June 18, 1965. Retrieved October 31, 2009. Last week, in a 7 to 2 decision, the court refused for the first time to give retroactive effect to a great Bill of Rights decision—Mapp v. Ohio (1961). ^ "The Supreme Court: Now Comes the Sixth Amendment". Time. April 16, 1965. Retrieved October 31, 2009. Sixth Amendment's right to counsel (Gideon v. Wainwright in 1963). … the court said flatly in 1904: 'The Sixth Amendment does not apply to proceedings in state criminal courts." But in the light of Gideon … ruled Black, statements 'generally declaring that the Sixth Amendment does not apply to states can no longer be regarded as law.' ^ "Guilt and Mr. Meese". The New York Times. January 31, 1987. Retrieved October 31, 2009. 1966 Miranda v. Arizona decision. That's the famous decision that made confessions inadmissible as evidence unless an accused person has been warned by police of the right to silence and to a lawyer, and waived it. ^ Graglia, Lino A. (October 2008). "The Antitrust Revolution" (PDF). Engage. 9 (3). Archived from the original (PDF) on June 21, 2017. Retrieved February 6, 2016. ^ Earl M. Maltz, The Coming of the Nixon Court: The 1972 Term and the Transformation of Constitutional Law (University Press of Kansas; 2016) ^ O'Connor, Karen (January 22, 2009). "Roe v. Wade: On Anniversary, Abortion Is out of the Spotlight". U.S. News & World Report. Retrieved October 31, 2009. The shocker, however, came in 1973, when the Court, by a vote of 7 to 2, relied on Griswold's basic underpinnings to rule that a Texas law prohibiting abortions in most situations was unconstitutional, invalidating the laws of most states. Relying on a woman's right to privacy... ^ "Bakke Wins, Quotas Lose". Time. July 10, 1978. Retrieved October 31, 2009. Split almost exactly down the middle, the Supreme Court last week offered a Solomonic compromise. It said that rigid quotas based solely on race were forbidden, but it also said that race might legitimately be an element in judging students for admission to universities. It thus approved the principle of 'affirmative action'… ^ "Time to Rethink Buckley v. Valeo". The New York Times. November 12, 1998. Retrieved October 31, 2009. ...Buckley v. Valeo. The nation's political system has suffered ever since from that decision, which held that mandatory limits on campaign spending unconstitutionally limit free speech. The decision did much to promote the explosive growth of campaign contributions from special interests and to enhance the advantage incumbents enjoy over underfunded challengers. ^ a b Staff writer (June 29, 1972). "Supreme Court Justice Rehnquist's Key Decisions". The Washington Post. Retrieved October 31, 2009. Furman v. Georgia … Rehnquist dissents from the Supreme Court conclusion that many state laws on capital punishment are capricious and arbitrary and therefore unconstitutional. ^ History of the Court, in Hall, Ely Jr., Grossman, and Wiecek (eds) The Oxford Companion to the Supreme Court of the United States. Oxford University Press, 1992, ISBN 0-19-505835-6 ^ "A Supreme Revelation". The Wall Street Journal. April 19, 2008. Retrieved October 31, 2009. Thirty-two years ago, Justice John Paul Stevens sided with the majority in a famous "never mind" ruling by the Supreme Court. Gregg v. Georgia, in 1976, overturned Furman v. Georgia, which had declared the death penalty unconstitutional only four years earlier. ^ Greenhouse, Linda (January 8, 2009). "The Chief Justice on the Spot". The New York Times. Retrieved October 31, 2009. The federalism issue at the core of the new case grows out of a series of cases from 1997 to 2003 in which the Rehnquist court applied a new level of scrutiny to Congressional action enforcing the guarantees of the Reconstruction amendments. ^ Greenhouse, Linda (September 4, 2005). "William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of Supreme Court, Is Dead at 80". The New York Times. Retrieved October 31, 2009. United States v. Lopez in 1995 raised the stakes in the debate over federal authority even higher. The decision declared unconstitutional a Federal law, the Gun Free School Zones Act of 1990, that made it a federal crime to carry a gun within 1,000 feet of a school. ^ Greenhouse, Linda (June 12, 2005). "The Rehnquist Court and Its Imperiled States' Rights Legacy". The New York Times. Retrieved October 31, 2009. Intrastate activity that was not essentially economic was beyond Congress's reach under the Commerce Clause, Chief Justice Rehnquist wrote for the 5-to-4 majority in United States v. Morrison. ^ Greenhouse, Linda (March 22, 2005). "Inmates Who Follow Satanism and Wicca Find Unlikely Ally". The New York Times. Retrieved October 31, 2009. His (Rehnquist's) reference was to a landmark 1997 decision, City of Boerne v. Flores, in which the court ruled that the predecessor to the current law, the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, exceeded Congress's authority and was unconstitutional as applied to the states. ^ Amar, Vikram David (July 27, 2005). "Casing John Roberts". The New York Times. Retrieved October 31, 2009. Seminole Tribe v. Florida (1996) In this seemingly technical 11th Amendment dispute about whether states can be sued in federal courts, Justice O'Connor joined four others to override Congress's will and protect state prerogatives, even though the text of the Constitution contradicts this result. ^ Greenhouse, Linda (April 1, 1999). "Justices Seem Ready to Tilt More Toward States in Federalism". The New York Times. Retrieved October 31, 2009. The argument in this case, Alden v. Maine, No. 98-436, proceeded on several levels simultaneously. On the surface … On a deeper level, the argument was a continuation of the Court's struggle over an even more basic issue: the Government's substantive authority over the states. ^ Lindenberger, Michael A. "The Court's Gay Rights Legacy". Time. Retrieved October 31, 2009. The decision in the Lawrence v. Texas case overturned convictions against two Houston men, whom police had arrested after busting into their home and finding them engaged in sex. And for the first time in their lives, thousands of gay men and women who lived in states where sodomy had been illegal were free to be gay without being criminals. ^ Justice Sotomayor (July 16, 2009). "Retire the 'Ginsburg rule' – The 'Roe' recital". USA Today. Archived from the original on August 22, 2009. Retrieved October 31, 2009. The court's decision in Planned Parenthood v. Casey reaffirmed the court holding of Roe. That is the precedent of the court and settled, in terms of the holding of the court. ^ Kamiya, Gary (July 4, 2001). "Against the Law". Salon. Retrieved November 21, 2012. ...the remedy was far more harmful than the problem. By stopping the recount, the high court clearly denied many thousands of voters who cast legal votes, as defined by established Florida law, their constitutional right to have their votes counted. … It cannot be a legitimate use of law to disenfranchise legal voters when recourse is available. … ^ Krauthammer, Charles (December 18, 2000). "The Winner in Bush v. Gore?". Time. Retrieved October 31, 2009. Re-enter the Rehnquist court. Amid the chaos, somebody had to play Daddy. … the Supreme Court eschewed subtlety this time and bluntly stopped the Florida Supreme Court in its tracks—and stayed its willfulness. By, mind you, … ^ Babington, Charles; Baker, Peter (September 30, 2005). "Roberts Confirmed as 17th Chief Justice". The Washington Post. Retrieved November 1, 2009. John Glover Roberts Jr. was sworn in yesterday as the 17th chief justice of the United States, enabling President Bush to put his stamp on the Supreme Court for decades to come, even as he prepares to name a second nominee to the nine-member court. ^ Greenhouse, Linda (July 1, 2007). "In Steps Big and Small, Supreme Court Moved Right". The New York Times. Retrieved November 1, 2009. It was the Supreme Court that conservatives had long yearned for and that liberals feared … This was a more conservative court, sometimes muscularly so, sometimes more tentatively, its majority sometimes differing on methodology but agreeing on the outcome in cases big and small. ^ Liptak, Adam (July 24, 2010). "Court Under Roberts Is Most Conservative in Decades". The New York Times. Retrieved February 1, 2019. When Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and his colleagues on the Supreme Court left for their summer break at the end of June, they marked a milestone: the Roberts court had just completed its fifth term. In those five years, the court not only moved to the right but also became the most conservative one in living memory, based on an analysis of four sets of political science data. ^ Caplan, Lincoln (October 10, 2016). "A new era for the Supreme Court: the transformative potential of a shift in even one seat". The American Prospect. Retrieved February 1, 2019. The Court has gotten increasingly more conservative with each of the Republican-appointed chief justices—Warren E. Burger (1969–1986), William H. Rehnquist (1986–2005), and John G. Roberts Jr. (2005–present). All told, Republican presidents have appointed 12 of the 16 most recent justices, including the chiefs. During Roberts's first decade as chief, the Court was the most conservative in more than a half-century and likely the most conservative since the 1930s. ^ Savage, Charlie (July 14, 2009). "Respecting Precedent, or Settled Law, Unless It's Not Settled". The New York Times. Retrieved November 1, 2009. Gonzales v. Carhart—in which the Supreme Court narrowly upheld a federal ban on the late-term abortion procedure opponents call "partial birth abortion"—to be settled law. ^ "A Bad Day for Democracy". The Christian Science Monitor. January 22, 2010. Retrieved January 22, 2010. ^ Barnes, Robert (October 1, 2009). "Justices to Decide if State Gun Laws Violate Rights". The Washington Post. Retrieved November 1, 2009. The landmark 2008 decision to strike down the District of Columbia's ban on handgun possession was the first time the court had said the amendment grants an individual right to own a gun for self-defense. But the 5 to 4 opinion in District of Columbia v. Heller... ^ Greenhouse, Linda (April 18, 2008). "Justice Stevens Renounces Capital Punishment". The New York Times. Retrieved November 1, 2009. His renunciation of capital punishment in the lethal injection case, Baze v. Rees, was likewise low key and undramatic. ^ Greenhouse, Linda (June 26, 2008). "Supreme Court Rejects Death Penalty for Child Rape". The New York Times. Retrieved November 1, 2009. The death penalty is unconstitutional as a punishment for the rape of a child, a sharply divided Supreme Court ruled Wednesday … The 5-to-4 decision overturned death penalty laws in Louisiana and five other states. ^ Federal Judiciary Act (1789), National Archives and Records Administration, retrieved September 12, 2017 ^ 16 Stat. 44 ^ Mintz, S. (2007). "The New Deal in Decline". Digital History. University of Houston. Archived from the original on May 5, 2008. Retrieved October 27, 2009. ^ Hodak, George (2007). "February 5, 1937: FDR Unveils Court Packing Plan". ABAjournal.com. American Bar Association. Retrieved January 29, 2009. ^ "Justices, Number of", in Hall, Ely Jr., Grossman, and Wiecek (editors), The Oxford Companion to the Supreme Court of the United States. Oxford University Press 1992, ISBN 0-19-505835-6 ^ McGinnis, John O. "Essays on Article II: Appointments Clause". The Heritage Guide To The Constitution. Heritage Foundation. Retrieved June 19, 2019. ^ "United States Senate. "Nominations"". ^ Brunner, Jim (March 24, 2017). "Sen. Patty Murray will oppose Neil Gorsuch for Supreme Court". The Seattle Times. Retrieved April 9, 2017. In a statement Friday morning, Murray cited Republicans' refusal to confirm or even seriously consider President Obama's nomination of Judge Merrick Garland, a similarly well-qualified jurist – and went on to lambaste President Trump's conduct in his first few months in office. [...] And Murray added she's "deeply troubled" by Gorsuch's "extreme conservative perspective on women's health", citing his "inability" to state a clear position on Roe v. Wade, the landmark abortion-legalization decision, and his comments about the "Hobby Lobby" decision allowing employers to refuse to provide birth-control coverage. ^ Flegenheimer, Matt (April 6, 2017). "Senate Republicans Deploy 'Nuclear Option' to Clear Path for Gorsuch". The New York Times. After Democrats held together Thursday morning and filibustered President Trump's nominee, Republicans voted to lower the threshold for advancing Supreme Court nominations from 60 votes to a simple majority. ^ "U.S. Senate: Supreme Court Nominations, Present-1789". United States Senate. Retrieved April 8, 2017. ^ See 5 U.S.C. § 2902. ^ 28 U.S.C. § 4. If two justices are commissioned on the same date, then the oldest one has precedence. ^ Balkin, Jack M. "The passionate intensity of the confirmation process". Jurist. Archived from the original on December 18, 2007. Retrieved February 13, 2008. ^ "The Stakes of the 2016 Election Just Got Much, Much Higher". The Huffington Post. Retrieved February 14, 2016. ^ McMillion, Barry J. (October 19, 2015). "Supreme Court Appointment Process: Senate Debate and Confirmation Vote" (PDF). Congressional Research Service. Retrieved February 14, 2016. ^ Hall, Kermit L., ed. (1992). "Appendix Two". Oxford Companion to the Supreme Court of the United States. Oxford University Press. pp. 965–971. ISBN 978-0-19-505835-2. ^ See, e.g., Evans v. Stephens, 387 F.3d 1220 (11th Cir. 2004), which concerned the recess appointment of William Pryor. Concurring in denial of certiorari, Justice Stevens observed that the case involved "the first such appointment of an Article III judge in nearly a half century" 544 U.S. 942 (2005) (Stevens, J., concurring in denial of cert) (internal quotation marks deleted). ^ a b Fisher, Louis (September 5, 2001). "Recess Appointments of Federal Judges" (PDF). CRS Report for Congress. Congressional Research Service. RL31112: 16. Retrieved August 6, 2010. Resolved, That it is the sense of the Senate that the making of recess appointments to the Supreme Court of the United States may not be wholly consistent with the best interests of the Supreme Court, the nominee who may be involved, the litigants before the Court, nor indeed the people of the United States, and that such appointments, therefore, should not be made except under unusual circumstances and for the purpose of preventing or ending a demonstrable breakdown in the administration of the Court's business. ^ The resolution passed by a vote of 48 to 37, mainly along party lines; Democrats supported the resolution 48–4, and Republicans opposed it 33–0. ^ "National Relations Board v. Noel Canning et al" (PDF). pp. 34, 35. The Court continued, "In our view, however, the pro forma sessions count as sessions, not as periods of recess. We hold that, for purposes of the Recess Appointments Clause, the Senate is in session when it says it is, provided that, under its own rules, it retains the capacity to transact Senate business. The Senate met that standard here." Later, the opinion states: "For these reasons, we conclude that we must give great weight to the Senate's own determination of when it is and when it is not in session. But our deference to the Senate cannot be absolute. When the Senate is without the capacity to act, under its own rules, it is not in session even if it so declares." ^ "Obama Won't Appoint Scalia Replacement While Senate Is Out This Week". NPR. Retrieved January 25, 2017. ^ "How the Federal Courts Are Organized: Can a federal judge be fired?". Federal Judicial Center. fjc.gov. Archived from the original on September 15, 2012. Retrieved March 18, 2012. ^ "History of the Federal Judiciary: Impeachments of Federal Judges". Federal Judicial Center fjc.gov. Retrieved March 18, 2012. ^ Appel, Jacob M. (August 22, 2009). "Anticipating the Incapacitated Justice". The Huffington Post. Retrieved August 23, 2009. ^ a b "Current Members". www.supremecourt.gov. Washington, D.C.: Supreme Court of the United States. Retrieved October 21, 2018. ^ Walthr, Matthew (April 21, 2014). "Sam Alito: A Civil Man". The American Spectator. Retrieved June 15, 2017 – via The ANNOTICO Reports. ^ DeMarco, Megan (February 14, 2008). "Growing up Italian in Jersey: Alito reflects on ethnic heritage". The Times. Trenton, New Jersey. Archived from the original on July 30, 2017. Retrieved June 15, 2017. ^ Halberstam, Malvina (March 1, 2009). "Ruth Bader Ginsburg". Jewish Women: A Comprehensive Historical Encyclopedia. Jewish Women's Archive. Retrieved June 15, 2017. ^ Neil Gorsuch was raised Catholic, but attends an Episcopalian church. It is unclear if he considers himself a Catholic or a Protestant. Burke, Daniel (March 22, 2017). "What is Neil Gorsuch's religion? It's complicated". CNN. Springer said she doesn't know whether Gorsuch considers himself a Catholic or an Episcopalian. "I have no evidence that Judge Gorsuch considers himself an Episcopalian, and likewise no evidence that he does not." Gorsuch's younger brother, J.J., said he too has "no idea how he would fill out a form. He was raised in the Catholic Church and confirmed in the Catholic Church as an adolescent, but he has been attending Episcopal services for the past 15 or so years." ^ Baker, Peter (August 7, 2010). "Kagan Is Sworn in as the Fourth Woman, and 112th Justice, on the Supreme Court". The New York Times. Retrieved August 8, 2010. ^ Mark Sherman, Is Supreme Court in need of regional diversity? (May 1, 2010). ^ Shane, Scott; Eder, Steve; Ruiz, Rebecca R.; Liptak, Adam; Savage, Charlie; Protess, Ben (July 15, 2018). "Influential Judge, Loyal Friend, Conservative Warrior – and D.C. Insider". The New York Times. p. A1. Retrieved July 16, 2018. ^ O'Brien, David M. (2003). Storm Center: The Supreme Court in American Politics (6th ed.). W.W. Norton & Company. p. 46. ISBN 978-0-393-93218-8. ^ "Religion of the Supreme Court". adherents.com. January 31, 2006. Retrieved July 9, 2010. ^ Segal, Jeffrey A.; Spaeth, Harold J. (2002). The Supreme Court and the Attitudinal Model Revisited. Cambridge Univ. Press. p. 183. ISBN 978-0-521-78971-4. ^ Schumacher, Alvin. "Roger B. Taney". Encyclopædia Britannica. Retrieved May 3, 2017. He was the first Roman Catholic to serve on the Supreme Court. ^ a b c d e "Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)". Supreme Court of the United States. Archived from the original on March 20, 2017. Retrieved May 3, 2017. ^ de Vogue, Ariane (October 22, 2016). "Clarence Thomas' Supreme Court legacy". CNN. Retrieved May 3, 2017. ^ a b "The Four Justices". Smithsonian Institution. October 21, 2015. Archived from the original on August 20, 2016. Retrieved May 3, 2017. ^ David N. Atkinson, Leaving the Bench (University Press of Kansas 1999) ISBN 0-7006-0946-6 ^ Greenhouse, Linda (September 9, 2010). "An Invisible Chief Justice". The New York Times. Retrieved September 9, 2010. Had [O'Connor] anticipated that the chief justice would not serve out the next Supreme Court term, she told me after his death, she would have delayed her own retirement for a year rather than burden the court with two simultaneous vacancies. […] Her reason for leaving was that her husband, suffering from Alzheimer's disease, needed her care at home. ^ Ward, Artemus (2003). Deciding to Leave: The Politics of Retirement from the United States Supreme Court. SUNY Press. p. 358. ISBN 978-0-7914-5651-4. One byproduct of the increased [retirement benefit] provisions [in 1954], however has been a dramatic rise in the number of justices engaging in succession politics by trying to time their departures to coincide with a compatible president. The most recent departures have been partisan, some more blatantly than others, and have bolstered arguments to reform the process. A second byproduct has been an increase in justices staying on the Court past their ability to adequately contribute.[1] p. 9 ^ Stolzenberg, Ross M.; Lindgren, James (May 2010). "Retirement and Death in Office of U.S. Supreme Court Justices". Demography. 47 (2): 269–298. doi:10.1353/dem.0.0100. PMC 3000028. PMID 20608097. If the incumbent president is of the same party as the president who nominated the justice to the Court, and if the incumbent president is in the first two years of a four-year presidential term, then the justice has odds of resignation that are about 2.6 times higher than when these two conditions are not met. ^ See for example Sandra Day O'Connor:How the first woman on the Supreme Court became its most influential justice, by Joan Biskupic, Harper Collins, 2005, p. 105. Also Rookie on the Bench: The Role of the Junior Justice by Clare Cushman, Journal of Supreme Court History 32 no. 3 (2008), pp. 282–296. ^ "Breyer Just Missed Record as Junior Justice". Retrieved January 11, 2008. ^ "Judicial Compensation". United States Courts. Retrieved May 15, 2017. ^ Mears, Bill (March 20, 2017). "Take a look through Neil Gorsuch's judicial record". Fox News. A Fox News analysis of that record – including some 3,000 rulings he has been involved with – reveals a solid, predictable conservative philosophy, something President Trump surely was attuned to when he nominated him to fill the open ninth seat. The record in many ways mirrors the late Justice Antonin Scalia's approach to constitutional and statutory interpretation. ^ Cope, Kevin; Fischman, Joshua (September 5, 2018). "It's hard to find a federal judge more conservative than Brett Kavanaugh". The Washington Post. Kavanaugh served a dozen years on the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals, a court viewed as first among equals of the 12 federal appellate courts. Probing nearly 200 of Kavanaugh's votes and over 3000 votes by his judicial colleagues, our analysis shows that his judicial record is significantly more conservative than that of almost every other judge on the D.C. Circuit. That doesn't mean that he'd be the most conservative justice on the Supreme Court, but it strongly suggests that he is no judicial moderate. ^ Chamberlain, Samuel (July 9, 2018). "Trump nominates Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court". Fox News. Trump may have been swayed in part because of Kavanaugh's record of being a reliable conservative on the court – and reining in dozens of administrative decisions of the Obama White House. There are some question marks for conservatives, particularly an ObamaCare ruling years ago. ^ Betz, Bradford (March 2, 2019). "Chief Justice Roberts' recent votes raise doubts about 'conservative revolution' on Supreme Court". Fox News. Erwin Chemerinsky, a law professor at the University of California at Berkeley, told Bloomberg that Roberts' recent voting record may indicate that he is taking his role as the median justice "very seriously" and that the recent period was "perhaps the beginning of his being the swing justice." ^ Roeder, Oliver (October 6, 2018). "How Kavanugh will change the Supreme Court". FiveThirtyEight. Based on what we know about measuring the ideology of justices and judges, the Supreme Court will soon take a hard and quick turn to the right. It's a new path that is likely to last for years. Chief Justice John Roberts, a George W. Bush appointee, will almost certainly become the new median justice, defining the court's new ideological center. ^ Goldstein, Tom (June 30, 2010). "Everything you read about the Supreme Court is wrong (except here, maybe)". SCOTUSblog. Retrieved July 7, 2010. ^ Among the examples mentioned by Goldstein for the 2009 term were: Dolan v. United States, 560 U.S. 605 (2010), which interpreted judges' prerogatives broadly, typically a "conservative" result. The majority consisted of the five junior Justices: Thomas, Ginsburg, Breyer, Alito, and Sotomayor. Magwood v. Patterson, 561 U.S. 320 (2010), which expanded habeas corpus petitions, a "liberal" result, in an opinion by Thomas, joined by Stevens, Scalia, Breyer, and Sotomayor. Shady Grove Orthopedic Associates, P. A. v. Allstate Ins. Co., 559 U.S. 393 (2010), which yielded a pro-plaintiff result in an opinion by Scalia joined by Roberts, Stevens, Thomas, and Sotomayor. Goldstein notes that in the 2009 term, the justice most consistently pro-government was Alito, and not the commonly perceived "arch-conservatives" Scalia and Thomas. ^ "October 2011 Term, Five to Four Decisions" (PDF). SCOTUSblog. June 30, 2012. Retrieved July 2, 2012. ^ a b "Final October 2010 Stat Pack available". SCOTUSblog. June 27, 2011. Retrieved June 28, 2011. ^ "End of Term statistical analysis – October 2010" (PDF). SCOTUSblog. July 1, 2011. Retrieved July 2, 2011. ^ "Cases by Vote Split" (PDF). SCOTUSblog. June 27, 2011. Retrieved June 28, 2011. ^ "Justice agreement – Highs and Lows" (PDF). SCOTUSblog. June 27, 2011. Retrieved June 28, 2011. ^ "Justice agreement" (PDF). SCOTUSblog. June 27, 2011. Retrieved June 28, 2011. ^ "Frequency in the majority" (PDF). SCOTUSblog. June 27, 2011. Retrieved June 28, 2011. ^ "Five-to-Four cases" (PDF). SCOTUSblog. June 27, 2011. Retrieved June 28, 2011. ^ Bhatia, Kedar (June 29, 2018). "Final October Term 2017 Stat Pack and key takeaways". SCOTUSBlog. Retrieved June 29, 2018. ^ a b Bhatia, Kedar S. (June 29, 2018). "Stat Pack for October Term 2017" (PDF). SCOTUSBlog. pp. 17–18. Retrieved June 29, 2018. ^ Feldman, Adam (June 28, 2019). "Final Stat Pack for October Term 2018". SCOTUSBlog. Retrieved June 30, 2019. ^ a b c Feldman, Adam (June 28, 2019). "Stat Pack for October Term 2018" (PDF). pp. 5, 19, 23. Retrieved June 30, 2019. ^ a b c d "Plan Your Trip (quote:) "In mid-May, after the oral argument portion of the Term has concluded, the Court takes the Bench Mondays at 10AM for the release of orders and opinions."". US Senator John McCain. October 24, 2009. Retrieved October 24, 2009. ^ a b c "Visiting the Court". Supreme Court of the United States. March 18, 2010. Retrieved March 19, 2010. ^ "Visiting-Capitol-Hill". docstoc. October 24, 2009. Archived from the original on August 21, 2016. Retrieved October 24, 2009. ^ "How The Court Works". The Supreme Court Historical Society. October 24, 2009. Retrieved January 31, 2014. ^ 28 U.S.C. § 1251(a) ^ Liptak, Adam (March 21, 2016). "Supreme Court Declines to Hear Challenge to Colorado's Marijuana Laws". The New York Times. Retrieved April 27, 2017. ^ 28 U.S.C. § 1251(b) ^ United States v. Shipp, 203 U.S. 563 (Supreme Court of the United States 1906). ^ a b c Curriden, Mark (June 2, 2009). "A Supreme Case of Contempt". ABA Journal. American Bar Association. Retrieved April 27, 2017. On May 28, [U.S. Attorney General William] Moody did something unprecedented, then and now. He filed a petition charging Sheriff Shipp, six deputies and 19 leaders of the lynch mob with contempt of the Supreme Court. The justices unanimously approved the petition and agreed to retain original jurisdiction in the matter. ... May 24, 1909, stands out in the annals of the U.S. Supreme Court. On that day, the court announced a verdict after holding the first and only criminal trial in its history. ^ a b Hindley, Meredith (November 2014). "Chattanooga versus the Supreme Court: The Strange Case of Ed Johnson". Humanities. 35 (6). Retrieved April 27, 2017. United States v. Shipp stands out in the history of the Supreme Court as an anomaly. It remains the only time the Court has conducted a criminal trial. ^ Linder, Douglas. "United States v. Shipp (U.S. Supreme Court, 1909)". Famous Trials. Retrieved April 27, 2017. ^ 28 U.S.C. § 1254 ^ 28 U.S.C. § 1259 ^ 28 U.S.C. § 1258 ^ 28 U.S.C. § 1260 ^ a b 28 U.S.C. § 1257 ^ Brannock, Steven; Weinzierl, Sarah (2003). "Confronting a PCA: Finding a Path Around a Brick Wall" (PDF). Stetson Law Review. XXXII: 368–369, 387–390. Retrieved April 27, 2017. ^ "Teague v. Lane 489 U.S. 288 (1989)". ^ Gutman, Jeffrey. "Federal Practice Manual for Legal Aid Attorneys: 3.3 Mootness". Federal Practice Manual for Legal Aid Attorneys. Sargent Shriver National Center on Poverty Law. Retrieved April 27, 2017. ^ Glick, Joshua (April 2003). "On the road: The Supreme Court and the history of circuit riding" (PDF). Cardozo Law Review. 24. Retrieved September 24, 2018. Gradually, however, circuit riding lost support. The Court's increasing business in the nation's capital following the Civil War made the circuit riding seem anachronistic and impractical and a slow shift away from the practice began. The Judiciary Act of 1869 established a separate circuit court judiciary. The justices retained nominal circuit riding duties until 1891 when the Circuit Court of Appeals Act was passed. With the Judicial Code of 1911, Congress officially ended the practice. The struggle between the legislative and judicial branches over circuit riding was finally concluded. ^ Allotment Order dated October 19, 2018. ^ 28 U.S.C. § 1254 ^ 28 U.S.C. § 1257; see also Adequate and independent state grounds ^ James, Robert A. (1998). "Instructions in Supreme Court Jury Trials" (PDF). The Green Bag. 2d. 1 (4): 378. Retrieved February 5, 2013. ^ 28 U.S.C. § 1872 See Georgia v. Brailsford, 3 U.S. 1 (1794), in which the Court conducted a jury trial. ^ Shelfer, Lochlan F. (October 2013). "Special Juries in the Supreme Court". Yale Law Journal. 123 (1): 208–252. Archived from the original on June 30, 2017. Retrieved October 2, 2018. ^ Mauro, Tony (October 21, 2005). "Roberts Dips Toe into Cert Pool". Legal Times. Retrieved October 31, 2007. ^ Mauro, Tony (July 4, 2006). "Justice Alito Joins Cert Pool Party". Legal Times. Retrieved October 31, 2007. ^ Liptak, Adam (September 25, 2008). "A Second Justice Opts Out of a Longtime Custom: The 'Cert. Pool'". The New York Times. Retrieved October 17, 2008. ^ Liptak, Adam (May 1, 2017). "Gorsuch, in sign of independence, is out of Supreme Court's clerical pool". The New York Times. Retrieved May 2, 2017. ^ For example, the arguments on the constitutionality of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act took place over three days and lasted over six hours, covering several issues; the arguments for Bush v. Gore were 90 minutes long; oral arguments in United States v. Nixon lasted three hours; and the Pentagon papers case was given a two-hour argument. Christy, Andrew (November 15, 2011). "'Obamacare' will rank among the longest Supreme Court arguments ever". NPR. Retrieved March 31, 2011. The longest modern-day oral arguments were in the case of California v. Arizona, in which oral arguments lasted over sixteen hours over four days in 1962.Bobic, Igor (March 26, 2012). "Oral arguments on health reform longest in 45 years". Talking Points Memo. Retrieved January 31, 2014. ^ Glazer, Eric M.; Zachary, Michael (February 1997). "Joining the Bar of the U.S. Supreme Court". Volume LXXI, No. 2. Florida Bar Journal. p. 63. Retrieved February 3, 2014. ^ Gresko, Jessica (March 24, 2013). "For lawyers, the Supreme Court bar is vanity trip". Florida Today. Melbourne, Florida. pp. 2A. Archived from the original on March 23, 2013. ^ "How The Court Works; Library Support". The Supreme Court Historical Society. Retrieved February 3, 2014. ^ See generally, Tushnet, Mark, ed. (2008) I Dissent: Great Opposing Opinions in Landmark Supreme Court Cases, Malaysia: Beacon Press, pp. 256, ISBN 978-0-8070-0036-6 ^ Kessler, Robert. "Why Aren't Cameras Allowed at the Supreme Court Again?". The Atlantic. Retrieved March 24, 2017. ^ Johnson, Benny. "The 2016 Running of the Interns". Independent Journal Review. Retrieved March 24, 2017. ^ 28 U.S.C. § 1 ^ 28 U.S.C. § 2109 ^ Pepall, Lynne; Richards, Daniel L.; Norman, George (1999). Industrial Organization: Contemporary Theory and Practice. Cincinnati: South-Western College Publishing. pp. 11–12. ^ "Bound Volumes". Supreme Court of the United States. Retrieved January 9, 2019. ^ "Cases adjudged in the Supreme Court at October Term, 2012 – March 26 through June 13, 2013" (PDF). United States Reports. 569. 2018. Retrieved January 9, 2019. ^ "Sliplists". Supreme Court of the United States. Retrieved January 1, 2019. ^ "Supreme Court Research Guide". law.georgetown.edu. Georgetown Law Library. Retrieved August 22, 2012. ^ "How to Cite Cases: U.S. Supreme Court Decisions". lib.guides.umd.edu. University of Maryland University Libraries. Retrieved August 22, 2012. ^ a b c Hall, Kermit L.; McGuire, Kevin T., eds. (2005). Institutions of American Democracy: The Judicial Branch. New York City: Oxford University Press. pp. 117–118. ISBN 978-0-19-530917-1. ^ Mendelson, Wallace (1992). "Separation of Powers". In Hall, Kermit L. (ed.). The Oxford Companion to the Supreme Court of the United States. Oxford University Press. p. 775. ISBN 978-0-19-505835-2. ^ The American Conflict by Horace Greeley (1873), p. 106; also in The Life of Andrew Jackson (2001) by Robert Vincent Remini ^ Brokaw, Tom; Stern, Carl (July 8, 1974). "Supreme Court hears case of United States v. Nixon". NBC Universal Media LLC. Retrieved February 20, 2019. But there is no guarantee that when the decision comes, it will end the matter. It may just set the stage for the next legal wrangle over compliance with the Court's decision. ^ Vile, John R. (1992). "Court curbing". In Hall, Kermit L. (ed.). The Oxford Companion to the Supreme Court of the United States. Oxford University Press. p. 202. ISBN 978-0-19-505835-2. ^ a b c d e Peppers, Todd C. (2006). Courtiers of the Marble Palace: The Rise and Influence of the Supreme Court Law Clerk. Stanford University Press. pp. 195, 1, 20, 22, and 22–24 respectively. ISBN 978-0-8047-5382-1. ^ Weiden, David; Ward, Artemus (2006). Sorcerers' Apprentices: 100 Years of Law Clerks at the United States Supreme Court. NYU Press. ISBN 978-0-8147-9404-3. ^ Chace, James (2007). Acheson: The Secretary of State Who Created the American World. New York City: Simon & Schuster (published 1998). p. 44. ISBN 978-0-684-80843-7. ^ List of law clerks of the Supreme Court of the United States ^ a b c d Liptak, Adam (September 7, 2010). "Polarization of Supreme Court Is Reflected in Justices' Clerks". The New York Times. Retrieved September 7, 2010. ^ William E. Nelson; Harvey Rishikof; I. Scott Messinger; Michael Jo (November 2009). "The Liberal Tradition of the Supreme Court Clerkship: Its Rise, Fall, and Reincarnation?" (PDF). Vanderbilt Law Review. p. 1749. Archived from the original (PDF) on July 27, 2010. Retrieved September 7, 2010. ^ Liptak, Adam; Kopicki, Allison (June 7, 2012). "Approval Rating for Supreme Court Hits Just 44% in Poll". The New York Times. Retrieved June 28, 2019. ^ a b c See for example "Judicial activism" in The Oxford Companion to the Supreme Court of the United States, edited by Kermit Hall; article written by Gary McDowell ^ Root, Damon W. (September 21, 2009). "Lochner and Liberty". The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved October 23, 2009. ^ Bernstein, David. Only One Place of Redress: African Americans, Labor Regulations, and the Courts from Reconstruction to the New Deal, p. 100 (Duke University Press, 2001): "The Court also directly overturned Lochner by adding that it is no 'longer open to question that it is within the legislative power to fix maximum hours.'" ^ Dorf, Michael and Morrison, Trevor. Constitutional Law, p. 18 (Oxford University Press, 2010). ^ Patrick, John. The Supreme Court of the United States: A Student Companion, p. 362 (Oxford University Press, 2006). ^ Steinfels, Peter (May 22, 2005). "'A Church That Can and Cannot Change': Dogma". The New York Times. Retrieved October 22, 2009. ^ Savage, David G. (October 23, 2008). "Roe vs. Wade? Bush vs. Gore? What are the worst Supreme Court decisions?". Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on October 23, 2008. Retrieved October 23, 2009. a lack of judicial authority to enter an inherently political question that had previously been left to the states ^ Lewis, Neil A. (September 19, 2002). "Judicial Nominee Says His Views Will Not Sway Him on the Bench". The New York Times. Retrieved October 22, 2009. he has written scathingly of Roe v. Wade ^ "Election Guide 2008: The Issues: Abortion". The New York Times. 2008. Retrieved October 22, 2009. ^ Buchanan, Pat (July 6, 2005). "The judges war: an issue of power". Townhall.com. Retrieved October 23, 2009. The Brown decision of 1954, desegregating the schools of 17 states and the District of Columbia, awakened the nation to the court's new claim to power. ^ Clymer, Adam (May 29, 1998). "Barry Goldwater, Conservative and Individualist, Dies at 89". The New York Times. Retrieved October 22, 2009. ^ Stone, Geoffrey R. (March 26, 2012). "Citizens United and conservative judicial activism" (PDF). University of Illinois Law Review. 2012 (2): 485–500. ^ Lincoln, Abraham (March 4, 1861). "First Inaugural Address". National Center. Archived from the original on October 9, 2009. Retrieved October 23, 2009. At the same time, the candid citizen must confess that if the policy of the Government upon vital questions affecting the whole people is to be irrevocably fixed by decisions of the Supreme Court, the instant they are made in ordinary litigation between parties in personal actions the people will have ceased to be their own rulers, having to that extent practically resigned their Government into the hands of that eminent tribunal. ^ Will, George F. (May 27, 2009). "Identity Justice: Obama's Conventional Choice". The Washington Post. Retrieved October 22, 2009. Thurgood Marshall quote taken from the Stanford Law Review, summer 1992 ^ Irons, Peter. A People's History of the Supreme Court. London: Penguin, 1999. ISBN 0-670-87006-4 ^ Liptak, Adam (January 31, 2009). "To Nudge, Shift or Shove the Supreme Court Left". The New York Times. Retrieved October 23, 2009. Every judge who's been appointed to the court since Lewis Powell...in 1971...has been more conservative than his or her predecessor ^ Babington, Charles (April 5, 2005). "Senator Links Violence to 'Political' Decisions". The Washington Post. Retrieved October 22, 2009. ^ Liptak, Adam (February 2, 2006). "A Court Remade in the Reagan Era's Image". The New York Times. Retrieved October 22, 2009. ^ Savage, David G. (July 13, 2008). "Supreme Court finds history is a matter of opinions". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved October 22, 2009. ^ Napolitano, Andrew P. (February 17, 2005). "No Defense". The New York Times. Retrieved October 23, 2009. ^ Edsall, Thomas B.; Fletcher, Michael A. (September 5, 2005). "Again, Right Voices Concern About Gonzales". The Washington Post. Retrieved October 23, 2009. ^ Lane, Charles (March 20, 2005). "Conservative's Book on Supreme Court Is a Bestseller". The Washington Post. Retrieved October 23, 2009. ^ Mark I. Sutherland; Dave Meyer; William J. Federer; Alan Keyes; Ed Meese; Phyllis Schlafly; Howard Phillips; Alan E. Sears; Ben DuPre; Rev. Rick Scarborough; David C. Gibbs III; Mathew D. Staver; Don Feder; Herbert W. Titus (2005). Judicial Tyranny: The New Kings of America. St. Louis, Missouri: Amerisearch Inc. p. 242. ISBN 978-0-9753455-6-6. ^ a b Kakutani, Michiko (July 6, 2009). "Appointees Who Really Govern America". The New York Times. Retrieved October 27, 2009. ^ Bazelon, Emily (July 6, 2009). "The Supreme Court on Trial: James MacGregor Burns takes aim at the bench". Slate. Retrieved October 27, 2009. ^ Special keynote address by President Ronald Reagan, November 1988, at the second annual lawyers convention of the Federalist Society, Washington, D.C. ^ Taylor Jr., Stuart (October 15, 1987). "Reagan Points to a Critic, Who Points Out It Isn't So". The New York Times. Retrieved October 23, 2009. ^ Kelley Beaucar Vlahos (September 11, 2003). "Judge Bork: Judicial Activism Is Going Global". Fox News. Archived from the original on May 23, 2010. Retrieved October 23, 2009. What judges have wrought is a coup d'état – slow moving and genteel, but a coup d'état nonetheless. ^ a b c Bendavid, Naftali (July 13, 2009). "Franken: 'An Incredible Honor to Be Here'". The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved October 22, 2009. ^ Leiter, Brian (March 19, 2017). "Let's start telling the truth about what the Supreme Court does". Washingtonpost.com. Retrieved September 29, 2019. ^ Safire, William (April 24, 2005). "Dog Whistle". The New York Times Magazine. Retrieved October 22, 2009. ^ Savage, David G. (October 23, 2008). "Roe vs. Wade? Bush vs. Gore? What are the worst Supreme Court decisions?". Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on October 23, 2008. Retrieved October 23, 2009. ^ Mansnerus, Laura (October 16, 2005). "Diminished Eminence in a Changed Domain". The New York Times. Retrieved October 22, 2009. ^ Smothers, Ronald (October 16, 2005). "In Long Branch, No Olive Branches". The New York Times. Retrieved October 22, 2009. ^ Cohen, Adam (January 15, 2008). "Editorial Observer – A Supreme Court Reversal: Abandoning the Rights of Voters". New York Times. Retrieved October 23, 2009. ^ Savage, David G. (July 13, 2008). "Supreme Court finds history is a matter of opinions". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved October 30, 2009. This suggests that the right of habeas corpus was not limited to English subjects … protects people who are captured … at Guantanamo … Wrong, Justice Antonin Scalia wrote in dissent. He said English history showed that the writ of habeas corpus was limited to sovereign English territory ^ Will, George F. (May 27, 2009). "Identity Justice: Obama's Conventional Choice". The Washington Post. Retrieved October 22, 2009. ^ a b Taranto, James (June 9, 2009). "Speaking Ruth to Power". The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved October 22, 2009. ^ Woodward, Bob; Scott Armstrong (1979). The Brethren: Inside the Supreme Court. United States of America: Simon & Schuster. p. 541. ISBN 978-0-7432-7402-9. A court which is final and unreviewable needs more careful scrutiny than any other ^ a b c d Sabato, Larry (September 26, 2007). "It's Time to Reshape the Constitution and Make America a Fairer Country". The Huffington Post. Retrieved October 23, 2009. ^ Christopher Moore (November 1, 2008). "Our Canadian Republic – Do we display too much deference to authority … or not enough?". Literary Review of Canada. Retrieved October 23, 2009. ^ Tomkins, Adam (2002). "In Defence of the Political Constitution". United Kingdom: 22 Oxford Journal of Legal Studies 157. Bush v. Gore ^ Madison, James (1789). "The Federalist Papers/No. 45 The Alleged Danger From the Powers of the Union to the State Governments Considered" – via Wikisource. the States will retain, under the proposed Constitution, a very extensive portion of active sovereignty ^ Alexander Hamilton (aka Publius) (1789). "Federalist No. 28". Independent Journal. Retrieved October 24, 2009. Power being almost always the rival of power; the General Government will at all times stand ready to check the usurpations of the state government; and these will have the same disposition toward the General Government. ^ Madison, James (January 25, 1788). "The Federalist". Independent Journal (44 (quote: 8th para)). Retrieved October 27, 2009. seems well calculated at once to secure to the States a reasonable discretion in providing for the conveniency of their imports and exports, and to the United States a reasonable check against the abuse of this discretion. ^ Madison, James (February 16, 1788). "The Federalist No. 56 (quote: 6th para)". Independent Journal. Retrieved October 27, 2009. In every State there have been made, and must continue to be made, regulations on this subject which will, in many cases, leave little more to be done by the federal legislature, than to review the different laws, and reduce them in one general act. ^ Hamilton, Alexander (December 14, 1787). "The Federalist No. 22 (quote: 4th para)". New York Packet. Retrieved October 27, 2009. The interfering and unneighborly regulations of some States, contrary to the true spirit of the Union, have, in different instances, given just cause of umbrage and complaint to others, and it is to be feared that examples of this nature, if not restrained by a national control, would be multiplied and extended till they became not less serious sources of animosity and discord than injurious impediments to the intercourse between the different parts of the Confederacy. ^ Madison, James (January 22, 1788). "The Federalist Papers". New York Packet. Retrieved October 27, 2009. The regulation of commerce with the Indian tribes is very properly unfettered from two limitations in the articles of Confederation, which render the provision obscure and contradictory. The power is there restrained to Indians, not members of any of the States, and is not to violate or infringe the legislative right of any State within its own limits. ^ Akhil Reed Amar (1998). "The Bill of Rights – Creation and Reconstruction". The New York Times: Books. Retrieved October 24, 2009. many lawyers embrace a tradition that views state governments as the quintessential threat to individual and minority rights, and federal officials—especially federal courts—as the special guardians of those rights. ^ Gold, Scott (June 14, 2005). "Justices Swat Down Texans' Effort to Weaken Species Protection Law". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved March 24, 2012. Purcell filed a $60-million lawsuit against the U.S. government in 1999, arguing that cave bugs could not be regulated through the commerce clause because they had no commercial value and did not cross state lines. 'I'm disappointed,' Purcell said. ^ a b Reich, Robert B. (September 13, 1987). "The Commerce Clause; The Expanding Economic Vista". The New York Times Magazine. Retrieved October 27, 2009. ^ FDCH e-Media (January 10, 2006). "U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee Hearing on Judge Samuel Alito's Nomination to the Supreme Court". The Washington Post. Retrieved October 30, 2009. I don't think there's any question at this point in our history that Congress' power under the commerce clause is quite broad, and I think that reflects a number of things, including the way in which our economy and our society has developed and all of the foreign and interstate activity that takes place – Samuel Alito ^ Cohen, Adam (December 7, 2003). "Editorial Observer; Brandeis's Views on States' Rights, and Ice-Making, Have New Relevance". The New York Times. Retrieved October 30, 2009. But Brandeis's dissent contains one of the most famous formulations in American law: that the states should be free to serve as laboratories of democracy ^ Graglia, Lino (July 19, 2005). "Altering 14th Amendment would curb court's activist tendencies". University of Texas School of Law. Archived from the original on December 4, 2010. Retrieved October 23, 2009. ^ Hornberger, Jacob C. (October 30, 2009). "Freedom and the Fourteenth Amendment". The Future of Freedom Foundation. Retrieved October 30, 2009. Fourteenth Amendment. Some argue that it is detrimental to the cause of freedom because it expands the power of the federal government. Others contend that the amendment expands the ambit of individual liberty. I fall among those who believe that the Fourteenth Amendment has been a positive force for freedom. ^ "Gamble v. United States". ScotusBlog. Retrieved September 28, 2018. ^ Vazquez, Maegan (June 28, 2018). "Supreme Court agrees to hear 'double jeopardy' case in the fall". CNN. Retrieved September 28, 2018. ^ Vicini, James (April 24, 2008). "Justice Scalia defends Bush v. Gore ruling". Reuters. Retrieved October 23, 2009. The nine-member Supreme Court conducts its deliberations in secret and the justices traditionally won't discuss pending cases in public ^ a b c Margolick, David (September 23, 2007). "Meet the Supremes". The New York Times. Retrieved October 23, 2009. Beat reporters and academics initially denounced the court's involvement in that case, its hastiness to enter the political thicket and the half-baked and strained decision that resulted. ^ "Public Says Televising Court Is Good for Democracy". PublicMind.fdu.edu. March 9, 2010. Retrieved December 14, 2010. ^ Mauro, Tony (March 9, 2010). "Poll Shows Public Support for Cameras at the High Court". The National Law Journal. Retrieved December 18, 2010. ^ a b c "C-SPAN Supreme Court Week". CSPAN. October 4, 2009. Retrieved October 25, 2009. ^ Vicini, James (April 24, 2008). "Justice Scalia defends Bush v. Gore ruling". Reuters. Retrieved October 23, 2009. Scalia was interviewed for the CBS News show "60 Minutes ^ Savage, David G. (October 23, 2008). "Roe vs. Wade? Bush vs. Gore? What are the worst Supreme Court decisions?". Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on October 23, 2008. Retrieved October 23, 2009. UC Berkeley law professor Goodwin Liu described the decision as 'utterly lacking in any legal principle" and added that the court was "remarkably unashamed to say so explicitly.' ^ McConnell, Michael W. (June 1, 2001). "Two-and-a-Half Cheers for Bush v Gore". University of Chicago Law Review. Retrieved February 16, 2016. ^ CQ Transcriptions (Senator Kohl) (July 14, 2009). "Key Excerpt: Sotomayor on Bush v. Gore". The Washington Post. Retrieved October 23, 2009. Many critics saw the Bush v. Gore decision as an example of the judiciary improperly injecting itself into a political dispute" ^ Adam Cohen (March 21, 2004). "Justice Rehnquist Writes on Hayes vs. Tilden, With His Mind on Bush v. Gore". Opinion section. The New York Times. Archived from the original on May 11, 2011. Retrieved October 23, 2009. The Bush v. Gore majority, made up of Mr. Rehnquist and his fellow conservatives, interpreted the equal protection clause in a sweeping way they had not before, and have not since. And they stated that the interpretation was 'limited to the present circumstances,' words that suggest a raw exercise of power, not legal analysis. ^ Kevin McNamara (June 3, 2009). "Letters – Supreme Court Activism?". Letters to the editor. The New York Times. Retrieved October 23, 2009. ^ CQ Transcriptions (January 13, 2006). "U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee Hearing on Judge Samuel Alito's Nomination to the Supreme Court". The Washington Post. Retrieved October 28, 2009. ...Baker v. Carr, the reapportionment case. We heard Justice Frankfurter who delivered a scathing dissent in that... ^ Greenhouse, Linda (September 10, 2007). "New Focus on the Effects of Life Tenure". The New York Times. Retrieved October 10, 2009. ^ Levinson, Sanford (February 9, 2009). "Supreme court prognosis – Ruth Bader Ginsburg's surgery for pancreatic cancer highlights why US supreme court justices shouldn't serve life terms". The Guardian. Manchester. Retrieved October 10, 2009. ^ See also Arthur D. Hellman, "Reining in the Supreme Court: Are Term Limits the Answer?," in Roger C. Cramton and Paul D. Carrington, eds., Reforming the Court: Term Limits for Supreme Court Justices (Carolina Academic Press, 2006), p. 291. ^ Richard Epstein, "Mandatory Retirement for Supreme Court Justices," in Roger C. Cramton and Paul D. Carrington, eds., Reforming the Court: Term Limits for Supreme Court Justices (Carolina Academic Press, 2006), p. 415. ^ Brian Opeskin, "Models of Judicial Tenure: Reconsidering Life Limits, Age Limits and Term Limits for Judges", Oxford J Legal Studies 2015 35: 627–663. ^ Hamilton, Alexander (June 14, 1788). "The Federalist No. 78". Independent Journal. Retrieved October 28, 2009. and that as nothing can contribute so much to its firmness and independence as permanency in office, this quality may therefore be justly regarded as an indispensable ingredient in its constitution, and, in a great measure, as the citadel of the public justice and the public security. ^ Liptak, Adam (June 22, 2016). "Justices Disclose Privately Paid Trips and Gifts". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Retrieved February 13, 2020. ^ O'Brien, Reity (June 20, 2014). "Justice Obscured: Supreme court justices earn quarter-million in cash on the side". Center for Public Integrity. ^ a b Lipton, Eric (February 26, 2016). "Scalia Took Dozens of Trips Funded by Private Sponsors". The New York Times. ^ Berman, Mark; Markon, Jerry (February 17, 2016). "Why Justice Scalia was staying for free at a Texas resort". The Washington Post. Bibliography[edit] Encyclopedia of the Supreme Court of the United States, 5 vols., Detroit [etc.] : Macmillan Reference USA, 2008 The Rules of the Supreme Court of the United States (2013 ed.) (PDF). Biskupic, Joan and Elder Witt. (1997). Congressional Quarterly's Guide to the U.S. Supreme Court. Washington, D.C.: Congressional Quarterly. ISBN 1-56802-130-5 Hall, Kermit L., ed. (1992). The Oxford Companion to the Supreme Court of the United States. New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-505835-2. Hall, Kermit L.; McGuire, Kevin T., eds. (2005). Institutions of American Democracy: The Judicial Branch. New York, New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-530917-1. Harvard Law Review Assn., (2000). The Bluebook: A Uniform System of Citation, 17th ed. [18th ed., 2005. ISBN 978-600-01-4329-9] Irons, Peter. (1999). A People's History of the Supreme Court. New York: Viking Press. ISBN 0-670-87006-4. Rehnquist, William. (1987). The Supreme Court. New York: Alfred A. Knopf. ISBN 0-375-40943-2. Skifos, Catherine Hetos. (1976)."The Supreme Court Gets a Home", Supreme Court Historical Society 1976 Yearbook. [in 1990, renamed The Journal of Supreme Court History (ISSN 1059-4329)] Warren, Charles. (1924). The Supreme Court in United States History. (3 volumes). Boston: Little, Brown and Co. Woodward, Bob and Armstrong, Scott. The Brethren: Inside the Supreme Court (1979). ISBN 978-0-7432-7402-9. Supreme Court Historical Society. "The Court Building" (PDF). Retrieved February 13, 2008. Further reading[edit] Abraham, Henry J. (1992). Justices and Presidents: A Political History of Appointments to the Supreme Court (1st ed.). New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-506557-2. Beard, Charles A. (1912). The Supreme Court and the Constitution. New York: Macmillan Company. Reprinted Dover Publications, 2006. ISBN 0-486-44779-0. Corley, Pamela C.; Steigerwalt, Amy; Ward, Artemus. (2013). The Puzzle of Unanimity: Consensus on the United States Supreme Court. Stanford University Press. ISBN 978-0-8047-8472-6. Cushman, Barry. (1998). Rethinking the New Deal Court. Oxford University Press. Cushman, Clare (2001). The Supreme Court Justices: Illustrated Biographies, 1789–1995 (2nd ed.). (Supreme Court Historical Society, Congressional Quarterly Books). ISBN 978-1-56802-126-3. Frank, John P. (1995). Friedman, Leon; Israel, Fred L. (eds.). The Justices of the United States Supreme Court: Their Lives and Major Opinions. Chelsea House Publishers. ISBN 978-1-56802-126-3. Garner, Bryan A. (2004). Black's Law Dictionary. Deluxe 8th ed. Thomson West. ISBN 0-314-15199-0. Greenburg, Jan Crawford, Jan. (2007). Supreme Conflict: The Inside Story of the Struggle for Control for the United States Supreme Court. New York: Penguin Press. ISBN 978-1-59420-101-1. Martin, Fenton S.; Goehlert, Robert U. (1990). The U.S. Supreme Court: A Bibliography. Washington, D.C.: Congressional Quarterly Books. ISBN 978-0-87187-554-9. Lewis, Thomas Tandy, ed. The U.S. Supreme Court. 2nd ed. 3 volumes. Ipswich: Salem/Grey House, 2016. ISBN 978-168217-180-6. McCloskey, Robert G. (2005). The American Supreme Court. 4th ed. Chicago: University of Chicago Press. ISBN 0-226-55682-4. O'Brien, David M. (2008). Storm Center: The Supreme Court in American Politics (8th ed.). New York: W. W. Norton & Company. ISBN 978-0-393-93218-8. Spaeth, Harold J. (1979). Supreme Court Policy Making: Explanation and Prediction (3rd ed.). New York: W.H.Freeman & Co Ltd. ISBN 978-0-7167-1012-7. Toobin, Jeffrey. The Nine: Inside the Secret World of the Supreme Court. Doubleday, 2007. ISBN 0-385-51640-1. Urofsky, Melvin and Finkelman, Paul. (2001). A March of Liberty: A Constitutional History of the United States. 2 vols. New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-512637-8 & ISBN 0-19-512635-1. Urofsky, Melvin I. (1994). The Supreme Court Justices: A Biographical Dictionary. New York: Garland Publishing. p. 590. ISBN 978-0-8153-1176-8. Supreme Court Historical Society. "The Court Building" (PDF). Retrieved February 13, 2008. External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Supreme Court of the United States. Wikiquote has quotations related to: Supreme Court of the United States Wikisource has original text related to this article: Supreme Court of the United States Listen to this article (info/dl) This audio file was created from a revision of the article "Supreme Court of the United States" dated 2006-08-05, and does not reflect subsequent edits to the article. (Audio help) More spoken articles Official website Supreme Court decisions from World Legal Information Institution (contains no advertisements) Supreme Court Collection from the Legal Information Institute Supreme Court Opinions from FindLaw U.S. Supreme Court Decisions (v. 1+) from Justia, Oyez and U.S. Court Forms Supreme Court Records and Briefs from Cornell Law Library Milestone Cases in Supreme Court History from InfoPlease Supreme Court Nominations, present–1789 Scales of Justice: The History of Supreme Court Nominations – Radio program explores history of appointments and confirmations Supreme Court Historical Society Complete/Searchable 1991–2004 Opinions and Orders The Supreme Court Database A research database with information about cases from 1946 to 2011 The Oyez Project – audio recordings of oral arguments "U.S. Supreme Court collected news and commentary". The New York Times. U.S. Supreme Court collected news and commentary at The Washington Post C-SPAN's The Supreme Court: Home to America's Highest Court Supreme Court Briefs Hosted by the American Bar Association Works by Supreme Court of the United States at Project Gutenberg Works by or about Supreme Court of the United States at Internet Archive Works by Supreme Court of the United States at LibriVox (public domain audiobooks) v t e Supreme Court of the United States The Court Lists of cases Procedures Camera policy Supreme Court Building Court demographics Ideological leanings Appointment and confirmation Current members Chief Justice: John Roberts Associate Justices: Clarence Thomas Ruth Bader Ginsburg Stephen Breyer Samuel Alito Sonia Sotomayor Elena Kagan Neil Gorsuch Brett Kavanaugh Retired Justices Sandra Day O'Connor Anthony Kennedy David Souter History Jay Court (1789–1795) Rutledge Court (1795) Ellsworth Court (1796–1800) Marshall Court (1801–1835) Taney Court (1836–1864) Chase Court (1864–1873) Waite Court (1874–1888) Fuller Court (1888–1910) White Court (1910–1921) Taft Court (1921–1930) Hughes Court (1930–1941) Stone Court (1941–1946) Vinson Court (1946–1953) Warren Court (1953–1969) Burger Court (1969–1986) Rehnquist Court (1986–2005) Roberts Court (2005–present) Lists of justices and nominees Chief justices Associate justices All justices court education time in office Justices who served in Congress All nominations Unsuccessful nominations Statutes affecting Court size Judiciary Act of 1789 Judiciary Act of 1801 Judiciary Act of 1802 Seventh Circuit Act of 1807 Eighth and Ninth Circuits Act of 1837 Tenth Circuit Act of 1863 Judicial Circuits Act of 1866 Judiciary Act of 1869 Court functionaries Clerk Marshal Supreme Court Police Reporter of Decisions Law clerks Lists of law clerks Chief Justice Seat 1 Seat 2 Seat 3 Seat 4 Seat 6 Seat 8 Seat 9 Seat 10 Former locations Old City Hall, Philadelphia Old Supreme Court Chamber, U.S. Capitol Old Senate Chamber, U.S. Capitol Related United States Solicitor General United States Reports Lawyers' Edition Amicus curiae Article III, U.S. Constitution Original jurisdiction Burial places of justices The Court in fiction Grant, vacate, remand order Other countries United States portal Law portal v t e Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States Chief justices John Jay (1789–1795, cases) John Rutledge (1795, cases) Oliver Ellsworth (1796–1800, cases) John Marshall (1801–1835, cases) Roger B. Taney (1836–1864, cases) Salmon P. Chase (1864–1873, cases) Morrison Waite (1874–1888, cases) Melville Fuller (1888–1910, cases) Edward Douglass White (1910–1921, cases) William Howard Taft (1921–1930, cases) Charles Evans Hughes (1930–1941, cases) Harlan F. Stone (1941–1946, cases) Fred M. Vinson (1946–1953, cases) Earl Warren (1953–1969, cases) Warren E. Burger (1969–1986, cases) William Rehnquist (1986–2005, cases) John Roberts (2005–present, cases) Associate justices J. Rutledge* (1790–1791) Cushing (1790–1810) Wilson (1789–1798) Blair (1790–1795) Iredell (1790–1799) T. Johnson (1792–1793) Paterson (1793–1806) S. Chase (1796–1811) Washington (1798–1829) Moore (1800–1804) W. Johnson (1804–1834) Livingston (1807–1823) Todd (1807–1826) Duvall (1811–1835) Story (1812–1845) Thompson (1823–1843) Trimble (1826–1828) McLean (1830–1861) Baldwin (1830–1844) Wayne (1835–1867) Barbour (1836–1841) Catron (1837–1865) McKinley (1838–1852) Daniel (1842–1860) Nelson (1845–1872) Woodbury (1845–1851) Grier (1846–1870) Curtis (1851–1857) Campbell (1853–1861) Clifford (1858–1881) Swayne (1862–1881) Miller (1862–1890) Davis (1862–1877) Field (1863–1897) Strong (1870–1880) Bradley (1870–1892) Hunt (1873–1882) J. M. Harlan (1877–1911) Woods (1881–1887) Matthews (1881–1889) Gray (1882–1902) Blatchford (1882–1893) L. Lamar (1888–1893) Brewer (1890–1910) Brown (1891–1906) Shiras (1892–1903) H. Jackson (1893–1895) E. White* (1894–1910) Peckham (1896–1909) McKenna (1898–1925) Holmes (1902–1932) Day (1903–1922) Moody (1906–1910 Lurton (1910–1914) Hughes* (1910–1916) Van Devanter (1911–1937) J. Lamar (1911–1916) Pitney (1912–1922) McReynolds (1914–1941) Brandeis (1916–1939) Clarke (1916–1922) Sutherland (1922–1938) Butler (1923–1939) Sanford (1923–1930) Stone* (1925–1941) O. Roberts (1930–1945) Cardozo (1932–1938) Black (1937–1971) Reed (1938–1957) Frankfurter (1939–1962) Douglas (1939–1975) Murphy (1940–1949) Byrnes (1941–1942) R. Jackson (1941–1954) W. Rutledge (1943–1949) Burton (1945–1958) Clark (1949–1967) Minton (1949– 1956) J. M. Harlan II (1955–1971) Brennan (1956–1990) Whittaker (1957–1962) Stewart (1958–1981) B. White (1962–1993) Goldberg (1962–1965) Fortas (1965–1969) T. Marshall (1967–1991) Blackmun (1970–1994) Powell (1972–1987) Rehnquist* (1972–1986) Stevens (1975–2010) O'Connor (1981–2006) Scalia (1986–2016) Kennedy (1988–2018) Souter (1990–2009) Thomas (1991–present) Ginsburg (1993–present) Breyer (1994–present) Alito (2006–present) Sotomayor (2009–present) Kagan (2010–present) Gorsuch (2017–present) Kavanaugh (2018–present) *Also served as Chief Justice of the United States v t e United States presidents and the federal judiciary Supreme Court candidates and nomination results All Supreme Court nominations Wilson Harding Coolidge Hoover F. D. Roosevelt Truman Eisenhower Kennedy L. B. Johnson Nixon Ford Carter Reagan G. H. W. Bush Clinton G. W. Bush Obama Trump All presidential judicial appointments Judicial appointment history for United States federal courts Washington J. Adams Jefferson Madison Monroe J. Q. Adams Jackson Van Buren Tyler Polk Taylor Fillmore Pierce Buchanan Lincoln A. Johnson Grant Hayes Garfield Arthur Cleveland (I) B. Harrison Cleveland (II) McKinley T. Roosevelt Taft Wilson Harding Coolidge Hoover F. D. Roosevelt Truman Eisenhower Kennedy L. B. Johnson Nixon Ford Carter Reagan G. H. W. Bush Clinton G. W. Bush Obama Trump Appointment controversies L. B. Johnson Nixon Ford Carter Reagan G. H. W. Bush Clinton G. W. Bush Obama Trump List of Presidents of the United States by judicial appointments • Supreme Court demographics Links to related articles v t e Supreme Courts of the Americas North America Central America Northern America West Indies South America Sovereign states Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Bahamas Barbados Belize Bolivia Brazil Canada Chile Colombia Costa Rica Cuba Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador El Salvador Grenada Guatemala Guyana Haiti Honduras Jamaica Mexico Nicaragua Panama Paraguay Peru Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Suriname Trinidad and Tobago United States Uruguay Venezuela v t e Highest judicial bodies in the United States Federal courts Supreme Court of the United States State supreme courts Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma: (Civil) (Criminal) Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas: (Civil) (Criminal) Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Territorial supreme courts American Samoa District of Columbia Guam Northern Mariana Islands Puerto Rico United States Virgin Islands Obsolete Panama Canal Zone Philippine Islands Complete list Courts of the United States (federal and state, all levels) v t e United States Military Judicial Authority Military justice Law of the United States Authority United States Constitution, Article I Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) Standards Manual for Courts-Martial Convening authority (court-martial) Judge Advocate General's Corps (JAG) Army Judge Advocate General's Corps, Army (Army JAG) Marine Corps Marine Corps Judge Advocate Division Navy Judge Advocate General's Corps, Navy (Navy JAG) Air Force Judge Advocate General's Corps, Air Force Coast Guard Coast Guard Legal Division Non-judicial punishment UCMJ Article 15 Military tribunals in the United States Court systems Trial Courts-martial Guantanamo military commissions Appeal Army Court of Criminal Appeals Air Force Court of Criminal Appeals Coast Guard Court of Criminal Appeals Navy-Marine Corps Court of Criminal Appeals Court of Military Commission Review Discretionary review Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces Supreme Court v t e Law of the United States Constitutional law and legislation Federalism Separation of powers Civil rights Act of Congress Bill (United States Congress) United States Code Courts of the United States Federal courts Supreme Appeals District (list) Bankruptcy Claims International Trade Tax State courts State supreme Education Law school Law School Admission Test Admission to the bar Types of law Child custody Child sexual abuse Civil procedure Conflict of laws Constitutional Contract Corporate Criminal Procedure Energy Gun Human rights Juvenile Privacy (State) Race State Tort Trust v t e United States articles History By event Pre-Columbian era Colonial era Thirteen Colonies military history Founding Fathers Continental Congress Lee Resolution Declaration of Independence American Revolution War Treaty of Paris Articles of Confederation Confederation Period American frontier Drafting and ratification of Constitution Bill of Rights Federalist Era War of 1812 Territorial acquisitions Territorial evolution Mexican–American War Civil War Reconstruction era Indian Wars Gilded Age Progressive Era Women's suffrage Civil rights movement 1865–1896 / 1896–1954 / 1954–1968 Spanish–American War Imperialism World War I Roaring Twenties Great Depression World War II home front American Century Cold War Korean War Space Race Feminist Movement Vietnam War Post-Cold War (1991–2008) War on Terror War in Afghanistan Iraq War Recent events (2008–present) By topic Outline of U.S. history Demographic Discoveries Economic debt ceiling Inventions before 1890 1890–1945 1946–1991 after 1991 Military Postal Technological and industrial Geography Territory Contiguous United States Continental America counties federal district federal enclaves Indian reservations insular zones minor outlying islands populated places states Earthquakes Extreme points Islands Mountains peaks ranges Appalachian Rocky National Park Service National Parks Regions East Coast West Coast Great Plains Gulf Mid-Atlantic Midwestern New England Pacific Central Eastern Northern Northeastern Northwestern Southern Southeastern Southwestern Western Longest rivers Arkansas Colorado Columbia Mississippi Missouri Red (South) Rio Grande Yukon Time Water supply and sanitation World Heritage Sites Politics Federal Executive Cabinet Civil service Executive departments Executive Office Independent agencies Law enforcement President of the United States Powers Public policy Legislative House of Representatives current members Speaker Senate current members President pro tempore Vice President Judicial Courts of appeals District courts Supreme Court Law Bill of Rights civil liberties Code of Federal Regulations Constitution federalism preemption separation of powers civil rights Federal Reporter United States Code United States Reports Intelligence Central Intelligence Agency Defense Intelligence Agency Federal Bureau of Investigation National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency National Reconnaissance Office National Security Agency Office of the Director of National Intelligence Uniformed Armed Forces Army Marine Corps Navy Air Force Coast Guard National Guard NOAA Corps Public Health Service Corps 51st state political status of Puerto Rico District of Columbia statehood movement Elections Electoral College Foreign relations Foreign policy Hawaiian sovereignty movement Ideologies anti-Americanism exceptionalism nationalism Local government Parties Democratic Republican Third parties Red states and blue states Purple America Scandals State government governor state legislature state court Imperial Presidency Corruption Economy By sector Agriculture Banking Communications Energy Insurance Manufacturing Mining Science and technology Tourism Trade Transportation by state Currency Exports Federal budget Federal Reserve System Financial position Labor unions Public debt Social welfare programs Taxation Unemployment Wall Street Society Culture Americana Architecture Cinema Crime Cuisine Dance Demography Economic issues affluence eviction home-ownership household income income inequality labor unions middle class personal income poverty standard of living wealth Education attainment Family structure Fashion Flag Folklore Health health care health insurance Holidays Homelessness Human rights Languages American English Indigenous languages ASL Black American Sign Language HSL Plains Sign Talk Arabic Chinese French German Italian Russian Spanish Literature Media Journalism Internet Newspapers Radio Television Music Names National symbols Columbia Statue of Liberty Uncle Sam People Philosophy Political ideologies Public holidays Race Religion Sexuality / Adolescent Sexuality Social class Society Sports Theater Transportation Video games Visual art Social class Affluence American Dream Educational attainment Homelessness Home-ownership Household income Income inequality Middle class Personal income Poverty Professional and working class conflict Standard of living Issues Ages of consent Capital punishment Crime incarceration Criticism of government Discrimination affirmative action antisemitism hair texture intersex rights Islamophobia LGBT rights racism same-sex marriage Drug policy Energy policy Environmental movement Gun politics Health care abortion health insurance hunger obesity smoking Human rights Immigration illegal International rankings National security Mass surveillance Terrorism Separation of church and state Outline Index Category Portal Authority control BNF: cb118637117 (data) GND: 35650-5 ISNI: 0000 0001 2176 610X LCCN: n79006848 NKC: ko2003204724 SNAC: w6186w6m SUDOC: 028143647 VIAF: 144945827 WorldCat Identities: lccn-n79006848 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Supreme_Court_of_the_United_States&oldid=953565047" Categories: 1789 establishments in the United States National supreme courts Supreme Court of the United States Hidden categories: Pages using Timeline CS1: Julian–Gregorian uncertainty CS1: long volume value Articles with short description Use mdy dates from June 2018 Coordinates on Wikidata Articles with hCards Articles needing additional references from January 2019 All articles needing additional references All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from April 2017 All articles with vague or ambiguous time Vague or ambiguous time from September 2018 Articles with unsourced statements from September 2018 Articles containing potentially dated statements from January 2019 All articles containing potentially dated statements Articles containing potentially dated statements from March 2012 Articles with unsourced statements from October 2014 Articles with unsourced statements from July 2019 Articles with unsourced statements from February 2019 Spoken articles Articles with hAudio microformats Articles with Project Gutenberg links Articles with Internet Archive links Articles with LibriVox links Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers Wikipedia articles with NKC identifiers Wikipedia articles with SNAC-ID identifiers Wikipedia articles with SUDOC identifiers Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers Wikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikinews Wikiquote Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Ænglisc العربية Asturianu Azərbaycanca Bân-lâm-gú Беларуская Български Bosanski Brezhoneg Català Čeština Dansk Deutsch Eesti Ελληνικά Español Esperanto Euskara فارسی Français Frysk Gaeilge Galego 한국어 हिन्दी Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Íslenska Italiano עברית ქართული Latina Latviešu Lëtzebuergesch Lietuvių Lumbaart Magyar मराठी Bahasa Melayu Nederlands 日本語 Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Polski Português Română Русский Scots Simple English Slovenčina Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Suomi Svenska Tagalog தமிழ் ไทย Türkçe Українська Tiếng Việt ייִדיש 粵語 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 27 April 2020, at 21:46 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view