https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1944
United States presidential election of 1944 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1944 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction Background and party nominations General election campaign Results of the 1944 election United States presidential election of 1944 United States government Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History United States presidential election of 1944, American presidential election held on Nov. 7, 1944, in which Democrat Franklin D. Roosevelt defeated Republican Thomas E. Dewey and thus secured his fourth term as president. American presidential election, 1944Results of the American presidential election, 1944 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes Franklin D. Roosevelt Democratic 432 25,602,505 Thomas E. Dewey Republican 99 22,006,278 Norman Thomas Socialist 80,518 Claude A. Watson Prohibition 74,758 Edward A. Teichert Socialist Labor 45,336 Source: Office of the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Background and party nominations In the election of 1940, prior to the entry of the United States into World War II, Roosevelt had shattered the two-term presidential tradition that had been established by the country’s first president, George Washington. In 1944, not surprisingly, the dominant issue of the presidential and congressional elections was the disposition and competency of the candidates to deal with the prosecution of the war and the no-less-formidable problems that would confront the United States, as the most powerful of the Allies, in the establishment of a just and lasting peace when the fighting was over. In his previous three presidential runs, Roosevelt had faced little challenge from the Republican Party, and, with the war continuing, observers found it highly unlikely that the opposition would be able to mount much of a campaign against the president. In the Republican primaries, three candidates emerged: Dewey, the governor of New York; John W. Bricker, the governor of Ohio; and Harold Stassen, the former governor of Minnesota. By the time the Republican convention began in Chicago on June 26, however, both Bricker and Stassen had withdrawn, and Dewey was nominated on the first ballot. Bricker, in turn, was unanimously selected as the party’s vice presidential candidate. The Republicans adopted a platform that favoured the creation of a United Nations and the strengthening of the military—at least until Germany and Japan had been defeated—but it criticized the administration in a number of areas, particularly the enormous deficit that had been generated during the war and the centralization of power in the executive branch. Thomas E. Dewey, 1944.UPI/Bettmann Archive The Democratic convention was held in Chicago on July 19–21. It was a foregone conclusion that Roosevelt would be renominated, but there was considerable opposition to renominating the sitting vice president, Henry A. Wallace (as his initial nomination had caused dissent). Instead of designating a vice presidential nominee, Roosevelt made no formal declaration of support for anyone. On the first ballot, Wallace led but lacked the necessary delegates to clinch the nomination, and Missouri senator Harry S. Truman was second. Southern states eventually shifted their votes to Truman, enabling him to win after the second ballot. In his acceptance speech, which was delivered by radio to the Chicago convention from a secret naval base in California, Roosevelt declared that he would not have the time or the inclination to campaign in “the usual partisan sense.” The Democratic platform that was adopted called for the successful prosecution of the war and the postwar creation of a United Nations. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today General election campaign Dewey was the strongest campaigner Roosevelt had faced. The pair rarely came to grips on major issues. After endorsing the administration’s general foreign and domestic policies and reforms, Dewey declared that the administration was dominated by “tired and quarrelsome old men.” He challenged chiefly the management of the federal government and reiterated that it was “time for a change.” When early October reports indicated that Dewey was gaining strength, Roosevelt foreswore his previous strategy and campaigned openly and effectively. Besides delivering several major political addresses, he toured major metropolitan areas of New England, New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania in an open car during driving rains (perhaps to answer suspicions about his health). In the end, Roosevelt won a comfortable victory, winning by nearly 3.6 million votes and capturing 432 electoral votes to Dewey’s 99. Despite the landslide, it was the closest of the four presidential elections that Roosevelt had won and his lowest number of electoral votes. Dewey won only 12 states: Colorado, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Maine, Nebraska, North Dakota, Ohio, South Dakota, Vermont, Wisconsin, and Wyoming. For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1940. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1948. Results of the 1944 election The results of the 1944 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1944 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes Source: Office of the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives. Franklin D. Roosevelt Democratic 432 25,602,505 Thomas E. Dewey Republican 99 22,006,278 Norman Thomas Socialist 80,518 Claude A. Watson Prohibition 74,758 Edward A. Teichert Socialist Labor 45,336 This article was most recently revised and updated by Michael Levy, Executive Editor. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: The 1944 election … of New York in the 1944 election, but his margin of victory was smaller than it had been previously. His running mate, chosen by leaders who disliked former vice president Henry A. Wallace for his extreme liberalism, was Sen. Harry S. Truman of Missouri, a party Democrat who had distinguished… Franklin D. Roosevelt: Declining health and death …obviously declining health during the campaign of 1944, when he ran for a fourth term against Governor Thomas E. Dewey of New York. But Roosevelt campaigned actively and won the election by a popular vote of 25 million to 22 million and an electoral college vote of 432 to 99.… Harry S. Truman: Early life and career …Roosevelt’s vice president on the 1944 Democratic ticket, replacing Henry A. Wallace. The Roosevelt-Truman ticket garnered 53 percent of the vote to 46 percent for their Republican rivals, and Truman took the oath of office as vice president on January 20, 1945. His term lasted just 82 days, however, during… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1944 Quick Facts date November 7, 1944 participants John W. Bricker Thomas E. Dewey Franklin D. Roosevelt Norman Thomas Harry S. Truman related topics Democratic Party Prohibition Party Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1944 Additional Information More About External Websites United States History - United States Presidential Election of 1944 Maps of World - U.S. Presidential Election of 1944 History Central - United States Presidential Election of 1944 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!