https://www.britannica.com/biography/Thomas-E-Dewey
Thomas E. Dewey | governor of New York | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Thomas E. Dewey governor of New York Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Thomas E. Dewey governor of New York Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Mar 20, 2020 See Article History Alternative Title: Thomas Edmund Dewey Thomas E. Dewey, in full Thomas Edmund Dewey, (born March 24, 1902, Owosso, Mich., U.S.—died March 16, 1971, Bal Harbour, Fla.), vigorous American prosecuting attorney whose successful racket-busting career won him three terms as governor of New York (1943–55). A longtime Republican leader, he was his party’s presidential nominee in 1944 and 1948 but lost in both elections. Dewey graduated from the University of Michigan in 1923 and received a law degree from Columbia University in 1925. Dewey was admitted to the New York bar in 1926 and launched his government career five years later as chief assistant to the U.S. attorney for the southern district of the state. Between 1935 and 1937 he garnered national attention as special prosecutor in an investigation of organized crime in New York; he obtained 72 convictions out of 73 prosecutions of long-established racketeers. Elected district attorney in 1937, Dewey continued to impress the electorate with his legal acumen and with his personal drive and integrity. Although unsuccessful in his first bid for governor (1938), Dewey was elected for three successive terms beginning in 1942. In office he earned a reputation for political moderation and administrative efficiency, putting the state on a pay-as-you-go basis for capital building, reorganizing departments, and establishing the first state agency to eliminate discrimination in employment. As Republican nominee for president in 1944, Dewey was neither expected nor able to overcome the enormous wartime prestige of the incumbent, Pres. Franklin D. Roosevelt. The pollsters flatly predicted victory for his candidacy in 1948, however, though the political picture was confused by the entrance of two minority extremist factions—the Progressives and the States’ Rights (Dixiecrat) Party. Dewey waged a noncommittal campaign purposely designed to avoid offending any segment of the electorate but was unexpectedly defeated by Pres. Harry S. Truman, who surprisingly retained the loyalty of both farm and labour circles. American presidential election, 1948Results of the American presidential election, 1948Source: Office of the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Dewey, Thomas E.Thomas E. Dewey entering a voting booth on Nov. 2, 1948.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today As a leader of the eastern Republicans at the 1952 national convention, he played a key role in the nominations of Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower for president and Sen. Richard M. Nixon for vice president. At the end of his third term as governor (1955), Dewey returned to a lucrative private law practice. He remained a close adviser to Republican administrations but thought his age precluded acceptance of an offer by President Nixon in 1968 to serve as chief justice of the United States. Dewey, Thomas E.Thomas E. Dewey, c. 1948Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. This article was most recently revised and updated by Amy Tikkanen, Corrections Manager. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Franklin D. Roosevelt: Declining health and death …a fourth term against Governor Thomas E. Dewey of New York. But Roosevelt campaigned actively and won the election by a popular vote of 25 million to 22 million and an electoral college vote of 432 to 99. (See primary source document: Fourth Inaugural Address.) By the time of his… Dwight D. Eisenhower: First term as president Thomas E. Dewey of New York, made an intensive effort to persuade him to seek the Republican presidential nomination. His name was entered in several state primaries against the more conservative Sen. Robert A. Taft of Ohio. Although the results were mixed, Eisenhower decided to… Harry S. Truman: Winning a second term …lacklustre speeches of Republican candidate Thomas E. Dewey, and Truman won by a comfortable margin, 49 percent to 45 percent; Wallace and Thurmond had little impact on the outcome.… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Thomas E. Dewey Quick Facts View Media Page born March 24, 1902 Owosso, Michigan died March 16, 1971 (aged 68) Bal Harbour, Florida title / office governor, New York (1943-1955) political affiliation Republican Party Thomas E. Dewey Additional Information More About External Websites National Park Service - Biography of Thomas Dewey Spartacus Educational - Biography of Thomas Dewey Netstate.com - Biography of Thomas Edmund Dewey University of Pennsylvania - Biography of Thomas Dewey United States History - Biography of Thomas E. Dewey Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!