https://www.britannica.com/biography/Strom-Thurmond
Strom Thurmond | Biography & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Strom Thurmond United States senator Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Strom Thurmond United States senator Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Alternative Title: James Strom Thurmond Strom Thurmond, in full James Strom Thurmond, (born December 5, 1902, Edgefield, South Carolina, U.S.—died June 26, 2003, Edgefield), American politician, a prominent states’ rights and segregation advocate who ran for the presidency in 1948 on the Dixiecrat ticket and was one of the longest-serving senators in U.S. history (1954–2003). After graduating (1923) from Clemson College (now Clemson University) in South Carolina, Thurmond taught school until 1929, when he became superintendent of education for Edgefield county. During this time he also began studying law and in 1930 was admitted to the bar. He then served as a city and county attorney until 1938 and was also a state senator (1933–38) and a circuit court judge (1938–41). Thurmond emerged from his military service in World War II a highly decorated lieutenant colonel. He was elected governor of South Carolina in 1946 and proceeded to initiate several liberal reforms, including a notable expansion of the state educational system. At the Democratic National Convention of 1948, however, Thurmond led the bolt of Southern delegates angry over the civil rights plank in the party platform. The Southerners formed the States’ Rights Democratic Party—popularly known as the Dixiecrats—and nominated Thurmond as their presidential candidate. He won 39 electoral votes. Elected by write-in vote to the Senate in 1954, Thurmond quickly established himself in the Southern conservative mold as a vigorous champion of increased military power and spending and an archfoe of civil rights legislation. He was reelected in 1960, but in 1964 he again left the Democratic Party in support of the conservative Republican presidential nominee, Barry Goldwater. Reelected as a Republican to seven consecutive terms, Thurmond continued to seek Southern conservative support for the GOP. In 1996 he became the oldest person to serve in Congress and the following year became the longest-serving U.S. senator; he held the latter distinction until 2006, when he was surpassed by Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia. Soon after Thurmond’s death it was revealed that at the age of 22 he had fathered a daughter out of wedlock. The mother was a 16-year-old African American maid who worked for his family. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica This article was most recently revised and updated by Adam Augustyn, Managing Editor, Reference Content. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: South Carolina: South Carolina since c. 1950 Strom Thurmond, first elected to public office in 1946, successfully navigated the shifting currents of the electorate. He was the presidential nominee of the segregationist Dixiecrats (States’ Rights Democratic Party) in 1948 and became a conservative Republican in 1964. Thurmond served in the U.S. Senate… Harry S. Truman: Winning a second term …initiatives; these Southern Democrats supported Strom Thurmond, the States’ Rights (“Dixiecrat”) presidential candidate.… electoral college: Arguments for and against the electoral college concentrated support—such as Dixiecrat candidate Strom Thurmond, who won 39 electoral votes in 1948 with just over 2 percent of the national vote—are occasionally able to win electoral votes.… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Strom Thurmond Quick Facts View Media Page born December 5, 1902 Edgefield, South Carolina died June 26, 2003 (aged 100) Edgefield, South Carolina title / office United States Senate, United States (1954-2003) governor, South Carolina (1946-1948) political affiliation Democratic Party Republican Party Dixiecrat role in Comprehensive Thrift and Bank Fraud Prosecution and Taxpayer Recovery Act Strom Thurmond Additional Information More About External Websites Spartacus Educational - Biography of Strom Thurmond Biographical Directory of the United States Congress - Biography of James Strom Thurmond Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Strom Thurmond - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!