https://www.britannica.com/topic/Dixiecrat
Dixiecrat | political party, United States | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Dixiecrat political party, United States Article Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Dixiecrat political party, United States Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Alternative Title: States’ Rights Democrat Dixiecrat, also called States’ Rights Democrat, member of a right-wing Democratic splinter group in the 1948 U.S. presidential election organized by Southerners who objected to the civil rights program of the Democratic Party. It met at Birmingham, Ala., and on July 17, 1948, nominated Gov. Strom Thurmond of South Carolina for president and Gov. Fielding L. Wright of Mississippi for vice president. The Dixiecrats, who opposed federal regulations they considered to interfere with states’ rights, carried South Carolina, Mississippi, Louisiana, and Alabama, to receive 39 electoral votes; their popular vote totalled over 1,000,000. This article was most recently revised and updated by Jeff Wallenfeldt, Manager, Geography and History. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: Postwar domestic reorganization Southerners, known as Dixiecrats, who were alienated by the Democratic Party’s strong civil rights plank, formed the States’ Rights Democratic Party and nominated Gov. Strom Thurmond of South Carolina for president. These defections appeared to ensure Truman’s defeat. Instead Truman won handily, receiving almost as many votes as… United States presidential election of 1948: The conventions …Rights Party, popularly labeled the Dixiecrats. The delegates nominated South Carolina Gov. Strom Thurmond as their candidate for president. Worsening Truman’s chances for reelection was also the defection of liberal Democrats, who broke with the president over his hard-line opposition to the Soviet Union. Many of these liberals supported the… Strom Thurmond …Democratic Party—popularly known as the Dixiecrats—and nominated Thurmond as their presidential candidate. He won 39 electoral votes.… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Dixiecrat Quick Facts date 1948 - present related people Strom Thurmond areas of involvement States' rights Right Dixiecrat Additional Information More About External Websites United States History - Dixiecrats Encyclopedia of Alabama - Dixiecrats New Georgia Encyclopedia - Government and Politics - Dixiecrats Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!