https://www.britannica.com/biography/Henry-A-Wallace
Henry A. Wallace | vice president of United States | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Henry A. Wallace vice president of United States Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Henry A. Wallace vice president of United States Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Alternative Title: Henry Agard Wallace Henry A. Wallace, in full Henry Agard Wallace, (born Oct. 7, 1888, Adair county, Iowa, U.S.—died Nov. 18, 1965, Danbury, Conn.), 33rd vice president of the United States (1941–45) in the Democratic administration of Franklin D. Roosevelt, who epitomized the “common man” philosophy of the New Deal Democratic Party. He shaped the administration’s controversial farm policy throughout the 1930s but broke with the party in 1946 on foreign relations. Wallace was the son of Henry Cantwell Wallace, secretary of agriculture under Warren G. Harding, and May Brodhead. After graduating from Iowa State College in 1910, Wallace worked for Wallace’s Farmer, a magazine founded by his father and grandfather, becoming its editor in 1921. An agricultural expert, his experiments with higher-yielding corn strains resulted in major advances in plant genetics, which he later developed into a highly profitable hybrid-corn business. Although his family had consistently supported the Republican Party, Wallace broke with the party in 1928 over its highly protectionist tariff policies. Later he joined the Democratic Party, and his extensive familiarity with farming, combined with his success in delivering “conservative Iowa” to the “radical New Deal” in the 1932 national elections, made him a natural choice for secretary of agriculture (1933–40) during Roosevelt’s first two terms. As agriculture secretary he formulated and administered New Deal legislation (especially the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1933) designed to raise and stabilize farm prices, conserve soil, store reserves, and control production. As vice president during Roosevelt’s third term (1941–45), Wallace became the president’s goodwill ambassador to Latin America and traveled in Siberia and China. When the United States entered World War II, he assumed many additional emergency duties, especially in national economic affairs. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Party conservatives—especially Southerners—opposed Wallace’s renomination to the vice presidency in 1944, and he was replaced on the ticket by Senator Harry S. Truman. Wallace served as secretary of commerce for the next two years, but his growing public dissatisfaction with the Truman administration’s hard-line Cold War policy toward the Soviet Union led to his dismissal from the cabinet in 1946. He became editor of the liberal weekly The New Republic (1946–47) and then left to help form the new left-wing Progressive Party. In his 1948 campaign as the Progressive’s presidential nominee, in which he received more than one million votes, Wallace advocated closer cooperation with the Soviet Union, United Nations administration of foreign aid, and arms reduction. Later he broke with the Progressives and returned to private life. Wallace was a prolific writer whose works included America Must Choose (1934), The Century of the Common Man (1943), Sixty Million Jobs (1945)—in which he called for governmental action to supplement private enterprise—and The Long Look Ahead (1960). Learn More in these related Britannica articles: China: Efforts to prevent civil war Henry A. Wallace visited Chongqing in June and had several discussions with Chiang, who requested U.S. assistance in improving relations between China and the Soviet Union and in settling the communist problem.… 20th-century international relations: The economic battle with Communism His secretary of agriculture, Henry A. Wallace, had been outspoken in criticism of the Baruch Plan and of the policy of “getting tough” with the Soviets. Upon resigning he became a leader of those whom Truman privately described as the “Reds, phonies and the parlour pinks” that he feared… origins of agriculture: Maize, or corn The second was developed by Henry A. Wallace, a future secretary of agriculture and vice president of the United States. He sold a small quantity in 1924 and, in 1926, organized the first seed company devoted to the commercial production of hybrid maize.… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Henry A. Wallace Quick Facts View Media Page born October 7, 1888 Adair County, Iowa died November 18, 1965 (aged 77) Danbury, Connecticut title / office vice president of the United States of America, United States (1941-1945) political affiliation Democratic Party Progressive Party role in New Deal founder of Progressive Party Henry A. Wallace Additional Information More About External Websites Miller Center - Biography of Henry A. Wallace The Biographical Dictionary of Iowa - Biography of Henry Agard Wallace United States Senate - Henry A. Wallace Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Henry Agard Wallace - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!