https://www.britannica.com/topic/Progressive-Party-United-States-1948
Progressive Party | political party, United States [1948] | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Progressive Party political party, United States [1948] Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Progressive Party political party, United States [1948] Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Progressive Party, (1948), in the United States, a dissident political faction founded in 1947 by Henry A. Wallace, who had broken with the Democratic administration of President Harry S. Truman. Unlike the Progressive organizations of 1912 and 1924, Wallace’s party campaigned on changes in foreign policy rather than domestic issues. It particularly advocated a more conciliatory policy toward the Soviet Union. The party won more than 1,000,000 popular votes in the 1948 election but was never again influential. Wallace, Henry A.Henry A. Wallace, founder of the Progressive Party.U. S. Department of Agriculture. This article was most recently revised and updated by Amy Tikkanen, Corrections Manager. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Henry A. Wallace …help form the new left-wing Progressive Party. In his 1948 campaign as the Progressive’s presidential nominee, in which he received more than one million votes, Wallace advocated closer cooperation with the Soviet Union, United Nations administration of foreign aid, and arms reduction. Later he broke with the Progressives and returned… Soviet Union Soviet Union, former northern Eurasian empire (1917/22–1991) stretching from the Baltic and Black seas to the Pacific Ocean and, in its final years, consisting of 15 Soviet Socialist Republics (S.S.R.’s): Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belorussia (now Belarus), Estonia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kirgiziya (now… United States presidential election of 1948 United States presidential election of 1948, American presidential election held on Nov. 2, 1948, in which Democratic Pres. Harry S. Truman defeated Republican Thomas E. Dewey. The roots of the 1948 election date to 1940, when Pres. Franklin D. Roosevelt decided to run for an unprecedented third… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Progressive Party Quick Facts date 1947 - c. 1948 related people Henry A. Wallace Charlotta Spears Bass areas of involvement Foreign policy Progressive Party Additional Information More About Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!