https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1952
United States presidential election of 1952 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1952 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction Primaries and conventions General election campaign Results of the 1952 election United States presidential election of 1952 United States government Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Eisenhower, Dwight D.: 1952 U.S. presidential election campaign commercial"I Like Ike" animated television commercial for Republican presidential candidate Dwight D. Eisenhower, produced by Roy Disney and Citizens for Eisenhower during the 1952 U.S. presidential campaign.Archival footage supplied by the Internet Moving Images Archive (at archive.org) in association with Prelinger ArchivesSee all videos for this article United States presidential election of 1952, American presidential election held on November 4, 1952, in which Republican Dwight D. Eisenhower easily defeated Democrat Adlai E. Stevenson. American presidential election, 1952Results of the American presidential election, 1952 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes Dwight D. Eisenhower Republican 442 33,778,963 Adlai E. Stevenson Democratic 89 27,314,992 Vincent Hallinan Progressive 135,007 Stuart Hamblen Prohibition 72,769 Eric Hass Socialist Labor 30,376 Darlington Hoopes Socialist 19,685 Douglas MacArthur Constitution 17,205 Farrell Dobbs Socialist Workers 10,306 Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001).Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Primaries and conventions Without an incumbent candidate in the White House, there was intense interest in who would win the nomination of each of the two major parties. There was also speculation as to whether a serious third-party candidacy, like Strom Thumond’s Dixiecrat bid in 1948, would materialize, particularly for Douglas MacArthur, the general who led United Nations forces in Korea until he was relieved of his duties in 1951 for insubordination by Pres. Harry S. Truman. Party primaries for convention delegates were held between March 11 and June 3 in the following order: New Hampshire, Minnesota, Nebraska, Wisconsin, Illinois, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, New York, Massachusetts, Maryland, Ohio, West Virginia, Oregon, Florida, California, and South Dakota. Primary elections were optional in three other states—Alabama, Arkansas, and Georgia—and were set by state committees. As the campaign of 1952 had neared, Eisenhower let it be known that he was a Republican, and the eastern wing of that party, headed by Gov. Thomas E. Dewey of New York, the party’s unsuccessful nominee in 1948, made an intensive effort to persuade Eisenhower to seek the Republican presidential nomination. His name was entered in several state primaries against the more conservative Sen. Robert A. Taft of Ohio. Although the results were mixed, Eisenhower decided to run. In June 1952 the five-star general retired from the army after 37 years of service, returned to the United States, and began to campaign actively. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Follow Eisenhower's path to become the Republican nominee in the United States presidential election of 1952Scenes from the 1952 Republican National Convention, in which Senator Robert A. Taft and General Dwight D. Eisenhower were the leading candidates for the presidential nomination.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article The Republican National Convention was held in Chicago, July 7–11. After a bitter fight with Taft supporters, Eisenhower won the nomination on the first ballot. Eisenhower selected as his running mate Sen. Richard M. Nixon of California, who had strong anticommunist credentials. Among the pledges of the Republicans was to end the Korean War and to support the Taft-Hartley Act, which restricted the activities of labour unions. The Democrats held their convention in Chicago two weeks later. The Democratic National Convention was marked by disarray, particularly between delegates who supported civil rights (largely from Northern states) and those opposed (primarily from Southern states). A requirement was adopted that the delegations pledge to support the eventual nominee and the party platform. A number of candidates vied for the nomination, including Sen. Estes Kefauver of Tennessee and Sen. Richard Russell of Georgia. Adlai E. Stevenson, the governor of Illinois, had refused to seek the nomination, but he was drafted by the convention as a compromise choice and was nominated on the third ballot. He chose as his running mate a Southerner, Sen. John Sparkman of Alabama. In contrast to the Republicans, the Democrats pledged to repeal the Taft-Hartley Act and called for the continuation of policies pursued by Truman and his predecessor as president, Franklin D. Roosevelt. There was also support for continuing the Korean War. Stevenson, Adlai E.Adlai E. Stevenson waving to supporters before speaking at Madison Square Garden, New York City, 1952.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. General election campaign Attempts to organize would-be supporters of MacArthur failed to secure any recognition from him. Although workers on his behalf had formal organization in seven states (Missouri, Arkansas, Texas, North Dakota, Washington, California, and Tennessee) under various designations (including America First, Christian Nationalist, and Constitution) and although it was expected that votes would be “written in” in 13 states, the outcome proved that such MacArthur support had no effect upon the final election result in any state. The election was conducted against the backdrop of a “Red Scare” in which many Americans feared that foreign communist agents were attempting to infiltrate the government. Two years earlier Sen. Joseph R. McCarthy of Wisconsin, who held that the Roosevelt and Truman administrations amounted to “20 years of treason,” claimed that he had a list of State Department employees who were loyal only to the Soviet Union. Though McCarthy offered no evidence to support his charges and revealed only a single name, he won a large personal following. The Red Scare, the stalemated Korean War, and a renewal of inflation gravely handicapped Stevenson, who fought a vigorous campaign. Eisenhower, despite his age (61), campaigned tirelessly, impressing millions with his warmth and sincerity. His wide, friendly grin, wartime heroics, and middle-class pastimes—he was an avid golfer and bridge player and a fan not of highbrow literature but of the American western—endeared him to the public and garnered him vast support. Mamie Eisenhower, like her husband, projected a down-to-earth image. One of the most dramatic incidents of the campaign was associated with Nixon. The New York Post reported that Nixon had a secret “slush fund.” Eisenhower was willing to give Nixon a chance to clear himself but emphasized that Nixon needed to emerge from the crisis “as clean as a hound’s tooth.” On September 23, 1952, Nixon took to television and delivered what has been dubbed the “Checkers” speech, in which he acknowledged the existence of the fund but denied that any of it had been used improperly. The speech is perhaps best remembered for its maudlin conclusion, in which Nixon admitted accepting one political gift—a cocker spaniel that his six-year-old daughter, Tricia, had named Checkers. “Regardless of what they say about it,” he declared, “we are going to keep it.” Although Nixon initially thought that the speech had been a failure, the public responded favourably, and a reassured Eisenhower told him, “You’re my boy.” On the eve of the election there was a general opinion that the presidential race was close. The final tally, however, was anything but. Eisenhower won by more than six million votes, capturing 39 states and 442 electoral votes to Stevenson’s 9 states and 89 electoral votes. Eisenhower even won Florida, Texas, and Virginia—three reliably Democratic states. The election was considered a great personal triumph for Eisenhower and a repudiation of the Truman administration. For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1948. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1956. Results of the 1952 election The results of the 1952 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1952 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the United States Office of the Federal Register and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001). Dwight D. Eisenhower Republican 442 33,778,963 Adlai E. Stevenson Democratic 89 27,314,992 Vincent Hallinan Progressive 135,007 Stuart Hamblen Prohibition 72,769 Eric Hass Socialist Labor 30,376 Darlington Hoopes Socialist 19,685 Douglas MacArthur Constitution 17,205 Farrell Dobbs Socialist Workers 10,306 This article was most recently revised and updated by Jeff Wallenfeldt, Manager, Geography and History. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: Peace, growth, and prosperity …to stand for reelection in 1952 and also gravely handicapped Gov. Adlai E. Stevenson of Illinois, the Democratic nominee. His opponent, Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower, was an immensely popular war hero with great personal charm and no political record, making him extremely hard to attack. Although he disliked their methods,… Richard Nixon: Vice presidency At the Republican convention in 1952, Nixon won nomination as vice president on a ticket with Dwight D. Eisenhower, largely because of his anticommunist credentials but also because Republicans thought he could draw valuable support in the West. In the midst of the campaign, the New York Post reported that… Dwight D. Eisenhower: First term as president As the campaign of 1952 neared, Eisenhower let it be known that he was a Republican, and the eastern wing of the party, headed by Gov. Thomas E. Dewey of New York, made an intensive effort to persuade him to seek the Republican presidential nomination. His name was entered… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1952 Quick Facts date November 4, 1952 participants Dwight D. Eisenhower Richard Nixon Adlai E. Stevenson John Sparkman key people Ronald Reagan related topics Democratic Party Prohibition Party Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1952 Additional Information More About External Websites Maps of World - United States Presidential Election of 1952 United States History - United States Presidential Election of 1952 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!