https://www.britannica.com/biography/Dwight-D-Eisenhower
Dwight D. Eisenhower | Cold War, Presidency, & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents Dwight D. Eisenhower president of United States Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction & Quick Facts Early career Supreme commander First term as president Second term Cabinet of Pres. Dwight D. Eisenhower Dwight D. Eisenhower president of United States Written By: Thomas C. Reeves Last Updated: Apr 17, 2020 See Article History Alternative Titles: David Dwight Eisenhhower, Dwight David Eisenhower Study the life and career of World War II general and former U.S. president Dwight D. EisenhowerAn overview of Dwight D. Eisenhower.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article Dwight D. Eisenhower, in full Dwight David Eisenhower (see Researcher’s Note), (born October 14, 1890, Denison, Texas, U.S. —died March 28, 1969, Washington, D.C. ), 34th president of the United States (1953–61), who had been supreme commander of the Allied forces in western Europe during World War II. key events in Dwight D. Eisenhower's lifeKey events in the life of Dwight D. Eisenhower.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Top Questions What was Dwight D. Eisenhower’s family like? Dwight Eisenhower’s parents, David Jacob and Ida Elizabeth (Stover) Eisenhower, moved their family from Denison, Texas, to Abilene, Kansas, where their forebears had settled in a Mennonite colony. David worked in a creamery, the family was poor, and young Dwight and his brothers were introduced to hard work and a strong religious tradition. Where was Dwight D. Eisenhower educated? Eisenhower was more interested in sports than in his studies at Abilene (Kansas) High School. He matriculated at the U.S. Military Academy, where he ranked 61st academically out of 164 graduates. He ranked first in a class of 275 at the army’s Command and General Staff School and then graduated from the Army War College. How did Dwight D. Eisenhower become famous? Eisenhower became famous for his military leadership during World War II. After planning the invasions of North Africa, Sicily, and mainland Italy, he became supreme commander of Allied forces in western Europe (1943) and planned the Normandy Invasion (1944) and the conduct of the war in western Europe until the German surrender (1945). When was Dwight D. Eisenhower president? The 34th U.S. president, Eisenhower served two terms, from 1953 to 1961. His tenure came at the end of fighting in the Korean War but during the Cold War. A period of general economic growth and prosperity, it was the age of the housing, television, and baby booms but also the era of McCarthyism. What were Dwight D. Eisenhower’s beliefs? Eisenhower urged economy and honesty in government. His basically conservative views on domestic affairs were reflected in his administration’s “modern Republicanism,” a program that called for reduced taxes, balanced budgets, a decrease in government control over the economy, and the return of certain federal responsibilities to the states. Early career Eisenhower was the third of seven sons of David Jacob and Ida Elizabeth (Stover) Eisenhower. In the spring of 1891 the Eisenhowers left Denison, Texas, and returned to Abilene, Kansas, where their forebears had settled as part of a Mennonite colony. David worked in a creamery; the family was poor; and Dwight and his brothers were introduced to hard work and a strong religious tradition at an early age. Denison, Texas; Eisenhower, Dwight D.Birthplace of U.S. President Dwight D. Eisenhower, Denison, Texas.Courtesy of the Texas Highway Department Eisenhower, Dwight D.: parents and brothersDwight D. Eisenhower (left) with his parents and brothers.Dwight D. Eisenhower Presidential Library and Museum Eisenhower, Dwight D.: Boy ScoutsDwight D. Eisenhower (second from left) on a Boy Scout camping trip along the Smoky Hill River, Kansas.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Eisenhower, Dwight D.Dwight D. Eisenhower as a young boy.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Abilene, Kansas: home of Dwight D. EisenhowerThe boyhood home of Dwight D. Eisenhower in Abilene, Kansas.© Joseph Sohm/Shutterstock.com “Ike,” as Dwight was called, was a fun-loving youth who enjoyed sports but took only a moderate interest in his studies. The latter was perhaps a sign of one of his later characteristics: a dislike for the company of scholars. Dwight graduated from Abilene High School in 1909, worked for more than a year to support a brother’s college education, and then entered the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York, a decision that left his mother, a pacifist, in tears. He excelled in gridiron football but injured a knee in his second year at the academy and was forced to stop playing. In the remarkable class of 1915—which was to produce 59 generals—he ranked 61st academically and 125th in discipline out of the total of 164 graduates. Dwight D. Eisenhower playing football in KansasA young Dwight D. Eisenhower (front row, second from right) during backyard football practice, Abilene, Kansas.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Dwight D. Eisenhower as a U.S. Military Academy graduateDwight D. Eisenhower as a graduate of the U.S. Military Academy, West Point, New York, 1915.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. After being commissioned a second lieutenant, he was sent to San Antonio, Texas, where he met Mamie Geneva Doud (Mamie Eisenhower), daughter of a successful Denver meat packer. They were married in 1916 and had two sons: Doud Dwight, born in 1917, who died of scarlet fever in 1921, and John Sheldon Doud, born in 1922. Eisenhower, MamieMamie EisenhowerHarris & Ewing Collection/Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Eisenhower, Dwight D.; Eisenhower, MamieWedding portrait of Dwight D. Eisenhower and Mamie Eisenhower, 1916.Dwight D. Eisenhower Presidential Library & Museum Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today During World War I Eisenhower commanded a tank training centre, was promoted to captain, and received the Distinguished Service Medal. The war ended just before he was to be sent overseas. From 1922 to 1924 he was assigned to the Panama Canal Zone, and there he came under the inspiring influence of his commander, Brig. Gen. Fox Conner. With Conner’s assistance, Eisenhower was selected to attend the army’s Command and General Staff School at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. Then a major, he graduated first in a class of 275 in 1926 and two years later graduated from the Army War College. He then served in France (where he wrote a guidebook of World War I battlefields) and in Washington, D.C., before becoming an aide to Army Chief of Staff Gen. Douglas MacArthur in 1933. Two years later he accompanied MacArthur to the Philippines to assist in the reorganization of the commonwealth’s army, and while there he was awarded the Distinguished Service Star of the Philippines and promoted to the rank of lieutenant colonel. He returned to the United States shortly after Germany’s invasion of Poland initiated the European phase of World War II, and in March 1941 he became a full colonel. Three months later he was made chief of staff of the Third Army, and he soon won the attention of Army Chief of Staff Gen. George C. Marshall for his role in planning war games involving almost 500,000 troops. Eisenhower family portraitMajor Dwight D. Eisenhower (standing, third from left) with his five brothers and his parents, c. 1935.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Supreme commander When the United States entered World War II in December 1941, Marshall appointed Eisenhower to the army’s war plans division in Washington, D.C., where he prepared strategy for an Allied invasion of Europe. Eisenhower had been made a brigadier general in September 1941 and was promoted to major general in March 1942; he was also named head of the operations division of the War Department. In June Marshall selected him over 366 senior officers to be commander of U.S. troops in Europe. Eisenhower’s rapid advancement, after a long army career spent in relative obscurity, was due not only to his knowledge of military strategy and talent for organization but also to his ability to persuade, mediate, and get along with others. Men from a wide variety of backgrounds, impressed by his friendliness, humility, and persistent optimism, liked and trusted him. A phrase that later became one of the most famous campaign slogans in American history seemed to reflect the impression of everyone who met him: “I like Ike!” Eisenhower, Dwight D.Brig. Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower, 1941.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. See how Allied commanders Eisenhower and Montgomery trapped Rommel to end Axis North Africa campaignsAn Anglo-American force lands in Morocco and Algeria in November 1942, and by the following June it has linked up with British forces in Tunisia and driven the Germans from North Africa. From The Second World War: Allied Victory (1963), a documentary by Encyclopædia Britannica Educational Corporation.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article Eisenhower was promoted to lieutenant general in July 1942 and named to head Operation Torch, the Allied invasion of French North Africa. This first major Allied offensive of the war was launched on November 8, 1942, and successfully completed in May 1943. Eisenhower’s decision to work during the campaign with the French admiral François Darlan, who had collaborated with the Germans, aroused a storm of protest from the Allies, but his action was defended by President Franklin D. Roosevelt. A full general since that February, Eisenhower then directed the amphibious assault of Sicily and the Italian mainland, which resulted in the fall of Rome on June 4, 1944. Learn about the Normandy Invasion planned by Dwight Eisenhower to give Allied powers a foothold in FranceOn D-Day, June 6, 1944, an Allied force led by General Dwight D. Eisenhower launched the greatest amphibious invasion of all time against German defenses on the coast of Normandy, France. From The Second World War: Allied Victory (1963), a documentary by Encyclopædia Britannica Educational Corporation.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article During the fighting in Italy, Eisenhower participated in plans to cross the English Channel for an invasion of France. On December 24, 1943, he was appointed supreme commander of the Allied Expeditionary Force, and the next month he was in London making preparations for the massive thrust into Europe. On June 6, 1944, he gambled on a break in bad weather and gave the order to launch the Normandy Invasion, the largest amphibious attack in history. On D-Day more than 156,000 troops landed in Normandy. Invading Allied forces eventually numbered 1,000,000 and began to fight their way into the heart of France. On August 25 Paris was liberated. After winning the Battle of the Bulge—a fierce German counterattack in the Ardennes in December—the Allies crossed the Rhine on March 7, 1945. Germany surrendered on May 7, ending the war in Europe. Although Eisenhower was criticized, then and later, for allowing the Russians to capture the enemy capital of Berlin, he and others defended his actions on several grounds (the Russians were closer, had more troops, and had been promised Berlin at the Yalta Conference of February 1945). In the meantime, in December 1944, Eisenhower had been made a five-star general. Dwight D. Eisenhower talking with troops before D-DayGeneral Dwight D. Eisenhower talking to paratroopers of the U.S. 101st Airborne Division just before their departure for Normandy, June 5, 1944. The trooper's “Screaming Eagle” shoulder patch was scratched from this wartime photo for security reasons.AP Dwight D. Eisenhower, Omar Bradley, and George Patton(Left to right) Dwight D. Eisenhower, Omar Bradley, and George Patton at Bastogne, Belgium, February 1945.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Eisenhower was given a hero’s welcome upon returning to the United States for a visit in June 1945, but in November his intended retirement was delayed when Pres. Harry S. Truman named him to replace Marshall as chief of staff. For more than two years Eisenhower directed demobilization of the wartime army and worked to unify the armed services under a centralized command. In May 1948 he left active duty as the most popular and respected soldier in the United States and became president of Columbia University in New York City. His book Crusade in Europe, published that fall, made him a wealthy man. Harry S. Truman and Dwight D. EisenhowerU.S. President Harry S. Truman awarding General Dwight D. Eisenhower his fifth Distinguished Service Medal as Mamie Eisenhower looks on.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Dwight D. Eisenhower, Bernard Montgomery, and Omar BradleyGeneral Dwight D. Eisenhower, Field Marshal Bernard Montgomery, and General Omar Bradley at the National Airport, Washington, D.C., September 12, 1946.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Eisenhower’s brief career as an academic administrator was not especially successful. His technical education and military experience prepared him poorly for the post. In the fall of 1950 President Truman asked him to become supreme commander of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), and in early 1951 he flew to Paris to assume his new position. For the next 15 months he devoted himself to the task of creating a united military organization in western Europe to be a defense against the possibility of communist aggression. Eisenhower, Dwight D.Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower visiting Omaha Beach, Normandy, June 1951.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Dwight D. Eisenhower, NATO supreme commander General Dwight D. Eisenhower, supreme commander of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, in a radio address from Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe at Marly-le-Roi, France, April 2, 1952.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Dwight D. Eisenhower Quick Facts View Media Page born October 14, 1890 Denison, Texas died March 28, 1969 (aged 78) Washington, D.C., United States title / office presidency of the United States of America, United States (1953-1961) political affiliation Republican Party notable works Atoms for Peace speech “Crusade in Europe” role in World War II North Africa campaigns Korean War Normandy Invasion Battle of the Bulge National Defense Education Act U-2 Incident Eisenhower Doctrine New Look Western Front notable family members spouse Mamie Eisenhower Load Next Page Dwight D. Eisenhower Additional Information More About Additional Reading Quotes Researcher's Note External Websites Kansapedia - Kansas Historical Society - Biography of Dwight D. Eisenhower Central Intelligence Agency - Biography of Dwight D. Eisenhower HistoryNet - Biography of Dwight D. Eisenhower World Golf Hall of Fame - Biography of Dwight D. Eisenhower Spartacus Educational - Biography of Dwight David Eisenhower The White House - Biography of Dwight D. Eisenhower Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Dwight D. Eisenhower - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) Dwight D. Eisenhower - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!