https://www.britannica.com/biography/Adlai-E-Stevenson
Adlai E. Stevenson | American statesman | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Adlai E. Stevenson American statesman Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Adlai E. Stevenson American statesman Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Alternative Title: Adlai Ewing Stevenson Adlai E. Stevenson, in full Adlai Ewing Stevenson, (born Feb. 5, 1900, Los Angeles, Calif., U.S.—died July 14, 1965, London, Eng.), U.S. political leader and diplomat who helped found the United Nations (UN), where he served as chief U.S. delegate (1961–65); he is mainly remembered by his countrymen as the eloquent, witty, but unsuccessful Democratic candidate for the presidency in 1952 and 1956. Stevenson, Adlai E.Adlai Stevenson, 1965AP Moving with his family in 1906 to Bloomington, Ill., he followed in the footsteps of his grandfather, Vice Pres. Adlai E. Stevenson (1893–97), by entering the practice of law (Chicago, 1926) and devoting himself to public service. He headed the Civil Rights Committee of the Chicago Bar Association, and—in a period when isolationism was rampant in the Midwest—was chairman of the Chicago chapter of the Committee to Defend America by Aiding the Allies. From 1941 to 1944 he was special assistant to the U.S. secretary of the navy, and in 1943 he headed a Foreign Economic Administration mission to Italy to develop a U.S. relief program. Two years later he became assistant to the secretary of state and served as an adviser to the U.S. delegation to the San Francisco Conference that founded the UN. He was named senior adviser to the U.S. delegation at the first meeting of the UN General Assembly in London (1946) and was a U.S. delegate at Assembly meetings in New York (1946–47). In 1948 Stevenson was elected governor of Illinois by a larger majority than any other candidate had received in the history of the state. His administration was characterized by far-reaching reforms: establishment of a merit system for state police, improved care and treatment of patients in state mental hospitals, greater state aid for schools, and a revitalized civil service. In spite of his refusal to seek the presidential nomination in 1952, he was drafted by the Democratic National Convention in Chicago. He waged a vigorous campaign, but the popular appeal of wartime hero Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower proved irresistible. Stevenson was defeated a second time four years later, again by Eisenhower. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today With the election of Pres. John F. Kennedy in 1960, Stevenson was appointed chief U.S. representative to the UN, holding cabinet rank and the title of ambassador. He served until his death, helping to assuage some of the worst international tensions—brought on by the financial difficulties of the parent organization, by the Cold War, and by the sensitivity of emerging African and Asian nations to traditional Western leadership. Stevenson’s published works include Call to Greatness (1954); What I Think (1956); Friends and Enemies (1958); Looking Outward: Years of Crisis at the United Nations (1963); and The Papers of Adlai E. Stevenson (1972–79). His eldest son, Adlai E. Stevenson III, was elected to the U.S. Senate from Illinois in 1970 and again in 1974 (retiring in 1981), after having served in the state legislature (1965–67) and as state treasurer (1967–70). This article was most recently revised and updated by Richard Pallardy, Research Editor. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: presidency of the United States of America: The convention system …1952 Democratic convention delegates selected Adlai Stevenson as the party’s nominee though Estes Kefauver had won more than three-fifths of the votes in that year’s presidential primaries. In 1968, at a raucous convention in Chicago that was marred by violence on the city’s streets and chaos in the convention hall,… John F. Kennedy: Congressman and senator Adlai E. Stevenson of Illinois, the two-time presidential candidate who by appealing to idealism had transformed the Democratic Party and made Kennedy’s rise possible.… Dwight D. Eisenhower: First term as president Adlai E. Stevenson of Illinois for president and Sen. John Sparkman of Alabama for vice president.… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Adlai E. Stevenson Quick Facts View Media Page born February 5, 1900 Los Angeles, California died July 14, 1965 (aged 65) London, England title / office governor, Illinois (1949-1953) political affiliation Democratic Party Adlai E. Stevenson Additional Information More About Quotes External Websites United States History - Biography of Adlai E. Stevenson Columbian College of Arts and Sciences - Eleanor Roosevelt Papers Project - Adlai Stevenson Havard Square Library - Biography of Adlai E. Stevenson Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Adlai E. Stevenson II - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!