https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1956
United States presidential election of 1956 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1956 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction Eisenhower’s health and the vice presidency Democratic nomination Republican convention General election campaign Results of the 1956 election United States presidential election of 1956 United States government Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History United States presidential election of 1956, American presidential election held on Nov. 6, 1956, in which incumbent Republican Pres. Dwight D. Eisenhower defeated Democrat Adlai E. Stevenson. It was the second consecutive election in which Stevenson lost to Eisenhower. American presidential election, 1956Results of the American presidential election, 1956 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes Dwight D. Eisenhower Republican 457 35,581,003 Adlai E. Stevenson Democratic 73 25,738,765 Walter Jones (not a candidate) 1 T. Coleman Andrews Independent States' Rights 111,178 Eric Hass Socialist Labor 44,450 Enoch A. Holtwick Prohibition 41,937 Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the Office of the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001).Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Eisenhower’s health and the vice presidency In the winter of 1955–56 there was some speculation that Eisenhower would not seek a second term. Republican leaders urged him to run, but he was attacked as a “part-time” president by opponents—a charge resulting from his coronary thrombosis of Sept. 24, 1955, and subsequent period of rest. All speculation ended on February 29 when he announced an affirmative decision. As a “recovered heart patient,” he said, doctors felt that he could “continue to carry the burdens of the presidency,” although a regime of ordered work activity would have to be mixed with regular amounts of exercise, recreation, and rest. Interest in the future of Vice Pres. Richard M. Nixon thereupon became intense. Nixon was a controversial figure, but he had proved particularly effective at campaigning in 1952 and 1954; he had also been energetic in office, visiting many countries, making policy speeches, and participating fully in cabinet and National Security Council meetings. On April 26 he informed Eisenhower that he would welcome running again as the president’s running mate, to which Eisenhower replied that he was “delighted to hear of the Vice President’s decision.” The president passed a physical examination on May 12, but in June he was suddenly stricken with ileitis. After a nearly two-hour operation on June 9, full details were given—an unusually complete reporting—in the press. Convalescence was normal, but the fact of two such dangerous illnesses in nine months and the vigorous Democratic attacks on Nixon guaranteed that the health of the president would be a campaign issue. Democratic nomination On the Democratic side, Stevenson and Sen. Estes Kefauver of Tennessee were engaged in a struggle in the state primaries. Victory by the latter in Minnesota made it look bad for the 1952 standard bearer. Both candidates aggressively wooed party leaders and voters and both offered alternative solutions to national problems, but increasingly bitter personal references marred their campaigning. Stevenson accused his opponent of a policy of “destroy if you can’t win” and of “wanting to win too much.” Stevenson then won three major state primaries and thus carried some momentum heading into the Democratic National Convention. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today At the convention, held August 13–17 in Chicago, former president Harry S. Truman—proclaiming himself no elder statesman, since “a statesman is just a dead politician, and I’m a very lively politician”—announced himself for Gov. W. Averell Harriman of New York. Stevenson could not carry more than nine states in the general election, Truman said. Nevertheless, Stevenson handily won the nomination. In a dramatic announcement the victor told the delegates that the “free processes” of the convention should decide on his running mate. The first ballot pitted Kefauver against Sen. John F. Kennedy of Massachusetts, Sen. Albert A. Gore of Tennessee, Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota, and Mayor John F. Wagner of New York City. Kefauver finished on top in the first ballot but without enough delegates to win outright. In the second ballot, Kennedy finished first but also without the requisite number of delegates. Following Gore’s withdrawal in favour of Kefauver, Kefauver was able to secure the vice presidential nomination. The Democratic platform contained a compromise plank on civil rights. The national government, it promised, would be returned “to its rightful owners, the people of the United States.” In general, it declared, the administration had “confused timidity with courage and blindness with enlightenment.” Paucity of ideas, impaired unity of the free world, and “resentment rising against U.S. leadership everywhere” were the platform’s attempted indictment against the incumbent leadership. Yet the Democratic Party was not fundamentally opposed to many major U.S. policies. It favoured participation in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, opposed admission of the People’s Republic of China into the United Nations, and was concerned over the plight of countries dominated by the Soviet Union even though it was not in favour of liberation by force. The platform agreed with earlier Stevenson-Kefauver pleas for supplying or selling arms to Israel. It also called for the repeal of the Taft-Hartley Act (anti-union legislation that had been passed in 1947 over Truman’s veto) and for enactment of new Social Security legislation. Republican convention Eisenhower, Dwight D.U.S. Pres. Dwight D. Eisenhower addressing the Republican National Convention, Aug. 23, 1956.Public Domain Meeting August 20–23 in San Francisco, Calif., the Republicans heard an inspirational address from former president Herbert Hoover. Although some Republicans sought to have Nixon replaced on the ticket, audible opposition on the convention floor proved nonexistent, and the Eisenhower-Nixon ticket was easily renominated. In his acceptance speech Eisenhower warned that taking “the centralization short-cut every time something is to be done” would result in “a swollen, bureaucratic, monster Government in Washington, in whose shadow our state and local governments will ultimately wither and die.” Both nominees admitted that there were still injustices in the United States. Nixon stated, “We believe in human welfare but not the welfare state”; still, “pockets of poverty” would have to be rooted out. Dwight D. Eisenhower and Richard Nixon at the 1956 Republican conventionDwight D. Eisenhower (left) and Richard M. Nixon after being renominated at the 1956 Republican National Convention in San Francisco.Courtesy of the Dwight D. Eisenhower Library/U.S. Army United States presidential election of 1956 Quick Facts date November 1956 participants Dwight D. Eisenhower Richard Nixon Adlai E. Stevenson Estes Kefauver key people Ronald Reagan related topics Democratic Party Prohibition Party Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America Load Next Page United States presidential election of 1956 Additional Information More About External Websites History Central - Presidential Elections 1956 Maps of World - U.S. Presidential Election 1956 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!