https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1960
United States presidential election of 1960 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1960 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction The primary campaign The conventions The general election campaign Results of the 1960 election United States presidential election of 1960 United States government Written By: Michael Levy See Article History Alternative Title: presidential election of 1960 United States presidential election of 1960, American presidential election held on November 8, 1960, in which Democrat John F. Kennedy narrowly defeated Republican Vice Pres. Richard M. Nixon. Kennedy thus became the first Roman Catholic and the youngest person ever elected president. Kennedy was also the first president born in the 20th century. American presidential election, 1960Results of the American presidential election, 1960. Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the Office of the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001).Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Read More on This Topic Richard Nixon: Election of 1960 Nixon received his party’s presidential nomination and was opposed in the 1960 general election by Democrat John F. Kennedy. The campaign… The primary campaign The campaign began in earnest in January 1960, when Senator Kennedy of Massachusetts and Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota announced their candidacies for the Democratic nomination. From January until the West Virginia primary in May, Kennedy and Humphrey crisscrossed the country in quest of delegate votes for the Democratic convention. Other Democratic candidates, avowed or unavowed, included Sen. Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas, the Democratic leader in the Senate; Sen. Stuart W. Symington of Missouri, former secretary of the air force; and Adlai E. Stevenson, former governor of Illinois, who had been the Democratic nominee in 1952 and 1956. Richard M. Nixon.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (digital file no. 3a53306u) On the Republican side there was little doubt that their nominee would be Nixon. Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York, who had indicated late in 1959 that he might seek the Republican nomination, withdrew in late December in the face of almost total opposition by Republican Party leaders. Nixon entered some of the primaries, but only to demonstrate his vote-getting abilities. He never faced any serious opposition. 1960 Democratic U.S. presidential primariesScenes from the 1960 Democratic Party primary elections, which U.S. Sen. John F. Kennedy used to prove himself to the public and to party leaders.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article Throughout the primaries and the fall campaign, Kennedy’s religion was a dominant issue. He would become only the second Roman Catholic ever to be nominated for president by a major party (the first was Democratic Gov. Al Smith of New York, who lost to Herbert Hoover in 1928). Some Protestant ministers and prominent laymen expressed fears that a Catholic president would be under the domination of the pope and would not always be free to act in the best interests of the country, charges which Kennedy denied. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Kennedy and Humphrey were the only major Democratic contenders to enter presidential primaries in 1960. Their first significant primary was in Wisconsin in April. Both Humphrey and Kennedy campaigned energetically in that state, which borders Humphrey’s home state of Minnesota. Kennedy won easily and was especially strong in Milwaukee and other areas where there were large numbers of Catholic voters. A month later Kennedy all but eliminated Humphrey from consideration by defeating him in West Virginia, a heavily Protestant state, proving that he could win in a state with few Catholics. The conventions See how Kennedy emerged from a crowded field to become the Democratic Party's 1960 presidential nomineeScenes from the 1960 Democratic National Convention, which nominated as candidate for president U.S. Sen. John F. Kennedy, who, in his acceptance speech, spoke of his hopes for a “New Frontier.”Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article Kennedy went to the Democratic National Convention in Los Angeles, held July 11–15, 1960, as the front-runner for the nomination, with some 600 delegates of the 761 needed for nomination secured. Johnson, however, hoped to wrest the nomination from Kennedy. Nevertheless, Kennedy won the nomination on the first ballot, with 806 votes. Kennedy then surprised most of his supporters by picking Johnson as his vice presidential running mate. The selection was generally interpreted as a move to hold the South, where opposition to Kennedy’s religion was strong and where the traditional Democratic leanings of the voters were changing. The party platform adopted at Los Angeles promised to expand the country’s defense and foreign aid programs. It also committed the Democratic Party, controversially, to civil rights. In his acceptance speech, Kennedy said the American people needed to be prepared to sacrifice in the years ahead. There were, he said, stimulating “new frontiers” to be crossed by the United States. Kennedy, John F.: campaign buttonButton from John F. Kennedy's 1960 U.S. presidential campaign.Courtesy of Michael Levy Two weeks later, in Chicago, the Republicans nominated Nixon. Nixon chose as his running mate Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr., a former U.S. senator from Massachusetts. Throughout the administration of Pres. Dwight D. Eisenhower (1953–61), Lodge—whose grandfather had 30 years earlier led the Senate opposition to U.S. participation in the League of Nations—was the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations and as such the principal U.S. spokesman in that world organization. Leaders of both parties considered Lodge a formidable choice. The Republican platform promised to continue and to improve upon the programs of the Eisenhower administration. Although there were some signs of dissatisfaction with the administration because of its failure to pursue aggressive action in such as areas as military programs, aid to depressed areas, and space exploration, it was generally agreed that Eisenhower’s prestige was as high as it had ever been and that the president’s support was a distinct advantage to Nixon. The general election campaign Presidential posturing began in earnest when the U.S. Congress reconvened in August, after the political conventions had been concluded. Both nominees were principal figures in the session, which was held in a politically charged atmosphere. As vice president, Nixon presided over the Senate. He also was a key figure in determining Republican strategy in a Congress that was controlled by the Democrats. As a senator from Massachusetts and as an author of the minimum-wage bill that was one of the principal measures to be acted upon during the session, Kennedy had an important stake in seeing to it that the achievements of the session were substantial. John F. Kennedy campaign buttonButton from John F. Kennedy's 1960 U.S. presidential campaign.Americana/Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The legislative achievements of Congress were mixed, but, by the time the traditional presidential campaign season kicked off on Labor Day in September, Nixon’s and Kennedy’s responsibilities in Congress were all but forgotten. At the time, the presidential campaign was the longest and the most intensive ever held in the United States. Crisscrossing the country on planes, trains, automobiles, and buses, Nixon and Kennedy were speaking, shaking hands, and conferring with politicians from coast to coast for most of September, for all of October, and for the seven days of November preceding the election. Kennedy tackled the election issue of his Catholicism in a speech to a group of Protestant ministers in Houston. In that speech, on September 12, he declared: I believe in an America that is officially neither Catholic, Protestant nor Jewish—where no public official either requests or accepts instructions on public policy from the Pope, the National Council of Churches or any other ecclesiastical source—where no religious body seeks to impose its will directly or indirectly upon the general populace or the public acts of its officials—and where religious liberty is so indivisible that an act against one church is treated as an act against all. An unprecedented series of four television debates between the two nominees constituted the highlight of the campaign. A provision of the Federal Communications Act had been suspended by Congress earlier in the year to permit the networks to broadcast the debates without having to provide equal time for candidates of minor parties. Although the debates were sometimes compared to the historic debates between Abraham Lincoln and Stephen A. Douglas (see also Lincoln-Douglas debates), they were more in the nature of joint press conferences, with reporters asking questions. They did, however, provide voters with an opportunity to compare the two candidates. Although Nixon showed a mastery of the issues, it is generally agreed that Kennedy, with his relaxed and self-confident manner, as well as his good looks (in contrast to Nixon’s “five o’clock shadow”), benefited the most from the exchanges. An estimated 85–120 million Americans watched one or more of the debates. Kennedy and Nixon both used set speeches in their public appearances. Kennedy said that the United States was falling behind the Soviet Union in the race for world supremacy and that the United States must “do better.” He pointed to the regime of Fidel Castro in Cuba—“just ten minutes by jet from the United States.” Kennedy also stressed the need for programs to deal with unemployment in chronically depressed areas and for more rapid U.S. economic growth. Nixon, the first presidential nominee to campaign in every state, emphasized that he would carry on the basic policies of the Eisenhower administration, but he also indicated that he would improve upon them in such areas as welfare programs, foreign aid, and defense. Eisenhower, who went on a “nonpolitical” inspection tour of the country in mid-October, took an active part in the last week of the campaign, when Eisenhower and Nixon appeared together in New York City. Until then, however, the president had seemed to stay in the background. When voters went to cast their ballots on November 7, the contest was close. In the electoral college, Kennedy captured 303 votes (34 more than was required to win), while Nixon won 219. The 14 unpledged electors in Alabama and Mississippi and 1 pledged elector in Oklahoma cast their votes for Sen. Harry F. Byrd, a Democrat from Virginia. Kennedy eked out a narrow victory in the popular vote, defeating Nixon by just under 117,000 votes. Overall, Kennedy won 49.7 percent to Nixon’s 49.5 percent. Kennedy thus became the third person elected president in the 20th century without winning a majority of the popular vote (joining Woodrow Wilson in 1912 and Harry S. Truman in 1948; in 1968 Nixon would become the fourth person in the 20th century to win the presidency without a majority). The popular vote was the closest since 1884, when Democrat Grover Cleveland defeated Republican James G. Blaine by only about 24,000 votes. Citing voting irregularities in Illinois and Texas, many observers questioned whether Kennedy had legally won those states, and some prominent Republicans—including Eisenhower—even urged Nixon to contest the results. He chose not to, however, declaring: I could think of no worse example for nations abroad, who for the first time were trying to put free electoral procedures into effect, than that of the United States wrangling over the results of our presidential election, and even suggesting that the presidency itself could be stolen by thievery at the ballot box. Nixon’s supporters and critics alike, both then and later, praised him for the dignity and unselfishness with which he handled defeat and the suspicion that vote fraud had cost him the presidency. For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1956. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1964.Michael Levy Results of the 1960 election The results of the 1960 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1960 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the Office of the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001). John F. Kennedy Democratic 303 34,227,096 Richard M. Nixon Republican 219 34,107,646 Harry F. Byrd (not a candidate) 15 Eric Hass Socialist Labor 47,522 Rutherford L. Decker Prohibition 46,203 Orval Faubus National States' Rights 44,977 Farrell Dobbs Socialist Workers 40,165 Charles L. Sullivan Constitution 18,169 Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Richard Nixon: Election of 1960 Nixon received his party’s presidential nomination and was opposed in the 1960 general election by Democrat John F. Kennedy. The campaign was memorable for an unprecedented series of four televised debates between the two candidates. Although Nixon performed well rhetorically, Kennedy managed… United States: An assessment of the postwar era …new age was indicated in 1960 by the comparative youth of the presidential candidates chosen by the two major parties. The Democratic nominee, Sen. John F. Kennedy of Massachusetts, was 43; the Republican, Vice Pres. Nixon, was 47. They both were ardent cold warriors and political moderates. Kennedy’s relative inexperience… John F. Kennedy: Presidential candidate and president Already his campaign for the 1960 nomination had begun. One newspaperman called him a “young man in a hurry.” Kennedy felt that he had to redouble his efforts because of the widespread conviction that no Roman Catholic candidate could be elected president. He made his 1958 race for reelection to… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1960 Quick Facts date November 8, 1960 participants Harry F. Byrd Orval Eugene Faubus Lyndon B. Johnson John F. Kennedy Henry Cabot Lodge Richard Nixon key people Ronald Reagan related topics Democratic Party Prohibition Party Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1960 Additional Information More About External Websites Maps of World - U.S. Presidential Election 1960 History Central - United States presidential election of 1960 Public Broadcasting Service - The 1960 Presidential Election Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!