https://www.britannica.com/biography/John-F-Kennedy
John F. Kennedy | Biography & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents John F. Kennedy president of United States Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction & Quick Facts Early life Congressman and senator Presidential candidate and president Assassination Cabinet of Pres. John F. Kennedy John F. Kennedy president of United States Written By: William Manchester Last Updated: Apr 17, 2020 See Article History Alternative Titles: JFK, John Fitzgerald Kennedy Learn about the failed Bay of Pigs invasion and the Cuban missile crisis during President Kennedy's tenureAn overview of John F. Kennedy.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article John F. Kennedy, in full John Fitzgerald Kennedy, byname JFK, (born May 29, 1917, Brookline, Massachusetts, U.S. —died November 22, 1963, Dallas, Texas ), 35th president of the United States (1961–63), who faced a number of foreign crises, especially in Cuba and Berlin, but managed to secure such achievements as the Nuclear Test-Ban Treaty and the Alliance for Progress. He was assassinated while riding in a motorcade in Dallas. John F. Kennedy: key eventsKey events in the life of John F. Kennedy.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Top Questions What was John F. Kennedy’s family like? John F. Kennedy was reared in a large Roman Catholic family of Irish descent that demanded intense physical and intellectual competition among its nine siblings. Steeped in Democratic Party politics, the family produced three presidential candidates: John and his brothers Robert and Ted. What were John F. Kennedy’s parents’ names? John F. Kennedy’s father was Joseph P. Kennedy, who acquired a multimillion-dollar fortune in banking, bootlegging, shipbuilding, motion pictures, and the stock market and who served as U.S. ambassador to the United Kingdom. His mother, Rose, was the daughter of John F. (“Honey Fitz”) Fitzgerald, onetime mayor of Boston. When was John F. Kennedy born and when did he die? John F. Kennedy was born on May 29, 1917, in Brookline, Massachusetts, and he was assassinated in Dallas, Texas, on November 22, 1963. While riding in a motorcade, he was struck by two rifle bullets and died shortly after hospitalization. Lee Harvey Oswald was accused of the slaying. What were John F. Kennedy’s jobs? John F. Kennedy served in the U.S. Navy during World War II, represented the Massachusetts 11th congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives for three terms (1947–53), served two terms as a U.S. senator for Massachusetts (1953–60), and was the 35th president of the United States (1961–63). What was John F. Kennedy famous for? John F. Kennedy, the first Roman Catholic president of the United States, sparked the idealism of “a new generation of Americans” with his charm and optimism, championed the U.S. space program, and showed cool dynamic leadership during the Cuban missile crisis, before becoming the victim of an assassination. Early life The second of nine children, Kennedy was reared in a family that demanded intense physical and intellectual competition among the siblings—the family’s touch football games at their Hyannis Port retreat later became legendary—and was schooled in the religious teachings of the Roman Catholic church and the political precepts of the Democratic Party. His father, Joseph Patrick Kennedy, had acquired a multimillion-dollar fortune in banking, bootlegging, shipbuilding, and the film industry, and as a skilled player of the stock market. His mother, Rose, was the daughter of John F. (“Honey Fitz”) Fitzgerald, onetime mayor of Boston. They established trust funds for their children that guaranteed lifelong financial independence. After serving as the head of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Joseph Kennedy became the U.S. ambassador to Great Britain, and for six months in 1938 John served as his secretary, drawing on that experience to write his senior thesis at Harvard University (B.S., 1940) on Great Britain’s military unpreparedness. He then expanded that thesis into a best-selling book, Why England Slept (1940). Brookline, Massachusetts; Kennedy, John F.The birthplace of U.S. President John F. Kennedy, Brookline, Massachusetts.D. Hanley/Photo Researchers Kennedy familyKennedy family photo c. 1931: (left to right) Rosemary; Joseph, Jr.; Kathleen; Patricia; Rose; Joseph, Sr.; Jean; Eunice; John; and Robert.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. John F. Kennedy: boyhood footballJohn F. Kennedy (seated, front row, far right) photographed with the Dexter School football team.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. John F. KennedyA young John F. Kennedy dressed in a police officer costume.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. John F. Kennedy: college graduationJohn F. Kennedy wearing college graduation attire.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. In the fall of 1941 Kennedy joined the U.S. Navy and two years later was sent to the South Pacific. By the time he was discharged in 1945, his older brother, Joe, who their father had expected would be the first Kennedy to run for office, had been killed in the war, and the family’s political standard passed to John, who had planned to pursue an academic or journalistic career. John F. Kennedy: PT-109John F. Kennedy commanding the U.S. Navy torpedo boat PT-109, 1943.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. John Kennedy himself had barely escaped death in battle. Commanding a patrol torpedo (PT) boat, he was gravely injured when a Japanese destroyer sank it in the Solomon Islands. Marooned far behind enemy lines, he led his men back to safety and was awarded the U.S. Navy and Marine Corps Medal for heroism. He also returned to active command at his own request. (These events were later depicted in a Hollywood film, PT 109 [1963], that contributed to the Kennedy mystique.) However, the further injury to his back, which had bothered him since his teens, never really healed. Despite operations in 1944, 1954, and 1955, he was in pain for much of the rest of his life. He also suffered from Addison disease, though this affliction was publicly concealed. “At least one-half of the days he spent on this earth,” wrote his brother Robert, “were days of intense physical pain.” (After he became president, Kennedy combated the pain with injections of amphetamines—then thought to be harmless and used by more than a few celebrities for their energizing effect. According to some reports, both Kennedy and the first lady became heavily dependent on these injections through weekly use.) None of this prevented Kennedy from undertaking a strenuous life in politics. His family expected him to run for public office and to win. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today John F. Kennedy Quick Facts View Media Page born May 29, 1917 Brookline, Massachusetts died November 22, 1963 (aged 46) Dallas, Texas title / office presidency of the United States of America, United States (1961-1963) United States Senate, United States (1953-1960) House of Representatives, United States (1947-1953) political affiliation Democratic Party notable works “Profiles in Courage” role in World War II Vietnam War Cold War Nuclear Test-Ban Treaty Bay of Pigs invasion Cuban missile crisis Equal Pay Act awards and honors Pulitzer Prize notable family members spouse Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis father Joseph P. Kennedy mother Rose Elizabeth Fitzgerald Kennedy son John Fitzgerald Kennedy, Jr. brother Ted Kennedy brother Robert F. Kennedy sister Eunice Kennedy Shriver sister Rosemary Kennedy did you know? John F. Kennedy is the only U.S. president to receive a Purple Heart. Arnold Schwarzenegger is John F. Kennedy's nephew by marriage. John F. Kennedy suffered from chronic back pain due to his uneven legs. Kennedy was stranded at sea for six days during World War II. Load Next Page John F. Kennedy Additional Information More About Additional Reading Quotes External Websites Spartacus Educational - Biography of John F. Kennedy Smithsonian Channel - Jackie Kennedy Stands Silently By The White House - Biography of John F. Kennedy Official Site of the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. John F. Kennedy - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) John F. Kennedy - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!