https://www.britannica.com/biography/Richard-Nixon
Richard Nixon | Accomplishments, Watergate, Impeachment, Resignation, & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents Richard Nixon president of United States Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction & Quick Facts Early life and congressional career Vice presidency Election of 1960 Presidency Domestic policies Foreign affairs Vietnam War China and the Soviet Union The Middle East and Latin America Watergate and other scandals Retirement and death Cabinet of President Nixon Richard Nixon president of United States Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Alternative Title: Richard Milhous Nixon Britannica SearchBot What were Richard Nixon's accomplishments? Where did Richard Nixon go to college? What awards did Richard Nixon receive? How did Richard Nixon die? What did Richard Nixon write? About Britannica SearchBot Richard Nixon , in full Richard Milhous Nixon, (born January 9, 1913, Yorba Linda, California, U.S. —died April 22, 1994, New York, New York ), 37th president of the United States (1969–74), who, faced with almost certain impeachment for his role in the Watergate scandal, became the first American president to resign from office. He was also vice president (1953–61) under Pres. Dwight D. Eisenhower. (For a discussion of the history and nature of the presidency, see presidency of the United States of America.) Richard M. Nixon: key eventsKey events in the life of Richard M. Nixon.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Read More on This Topic United States: The Richard M. Nixon administration Nixon and his national security adviser, Henry Kissinger, believed that American power relative to that of other nations had declined to… Early life and congressional career Richard Nixon was the second of five children born to Frank Nixon, a service station owner and grocer, and Hannah Milhous Nixon, whose devout Quakerism would exert a strong influence on her son. Nixon graduated from Whittier College in California in 1934 and from Duke University Law School in Durham, North Carolina, in 1937. Returning to Whittier to practice law, he met Thelma Catherine (“Pat”) Ryan ( Pat Nixon), a teacher and amateur actress, after the two were cast in the same play at a local community theatre. The couple married in 1940. In August 1942, after a brief stint in the Office of Price Administration in Washington, D.C., Nixon joined the navy, serving as an aviation ground officer in the Pacific and rising to the rank of lieutenant commander. Following his return to civilian life in 1946, he was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives, defeating five-term liberal Democratic Congressman Jerry Voorhis in a campaign that relied heavily on innuendos about Voorhis’s alleged communist sympathies. Running for reelection in 1948, Nixon entered and won both the Democratic and Republican primaries, which thus eliminated the need to participate in the general election. As a member of the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAAC) in 1948–50, he took a leading role in the investigation of Alger Hiss, a former State Department official accused of spying for the Soviet Union. In dramatic testimony before the committee, Whittaker Chambers, a journalist and former spy, claimed that in 1937 Hiss had given him classified State Department papers for transmission to a Soviet agent. Hiss vehemently denied the charge but was later convicted of perjury. Nixon’s hostile questioning of Hiss during the committee hearings did much to make his national reputation as a fervent anticommunist. Whittaker ChambersWhittaker Chambers testifying before the House Committee on Un-American Activities, 1948.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. In 1950 Nixon successfully ran for the United States Senate against Democratic Rep. Helen Gahagan Douglas. After his campaign distributed “pink sheets” comparing Douglas’s voting record to that of Vito Marcantonio, a left-wing representative from New York, the Independent Review, a small Southern California newspaper, nicknamed him “Tricky Dick.” The epithet later became a favourite among Nixon’s opponents. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Vice presidency At the Republican convention in 1952, Nixon won nomination as vice president on a ticket with Dwight D. Eisenhower, largely because of his anticommunist credentials but also because Republicans thought he could draw valuable support in the West. In the midst of the campaign, the New York Post reported that Nixon had been maintaining a secret “slush fund” provided by contributions from a group of southern California businessmen. Eisenhower was willing to give Nixon a chance to clear himself but emphasized that Nixon needed to emerge from the crisis “as clean as a hound’s tooth.” On September 23, 1952, Nixon delivered a nationally televised address, the so-called “ Checkers” speech, in which he acknowledged the existence of the fund but denied that any of it had been used improperly. To demonstrate that he had not enriched himself in office, he listed his family’s financial assets and liabilities in embarrassing detail, noting that his wife, Pat, unlike the wives of so many Democratic politicians, did not own a fur coat but only “a respectable Republican cloth coat.” The speech is perhaps best remembered for its maudlin conclusion, in which Nixon admitted accepting one political gift—a cocker spaniel that his six-year-old daughter, Tricia, had named Checkers. “Regardless of what they say about it,” he declared, “we are going to keep it.” Although Nixon initially thought that the speech had been a failure, the public responded favourably, and a reassured Eisenhower told him, “You’re my boy.” The Eisenhower-Nixon ticket defeated the Democratic candidates, Adlai E. Stevenson and John Sparkman, with just under 34 million popular votes to their 27.3 million; the vote in the electoral college was 442 to 89. Richard Nixon and Dwight D. EisenhowerDwight D. Eisenhower (centre), the Republican Party nominee for U.S. president, with running mate Richard Nixon (left, holding child) at campaign headquarters in Washington, D.C., September 10, 1952.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. During his two terms as vice president, Nixon campaigned actively for Republican candidates but otherwise did not assume significant responsibilities. (Asked at a press conference to describe Nixon’s contributions to his administration’s policies, Eisenhower replied: “If you give me a week, I might think of one.”) Nevertheless, his performance in office helped to make the role of vice president more prominent and to enhance its constitutional importance. In 1955–57 Eisenhower suffered a series of serious illnesses, including a heart attack, an attack of ileitis, and a stroke. While Eisenhower was incapacitated, Nixon was called on to chair several cabinet sessions and National Security Council meetings, though real power lay in a close circle of Eisenhower advisers, from which Nixon had always been excluded. After his stroke, Eisenhower formalized an agreement with Nixon on the powers and responsibilities of the vice president in the event of presidential disability; the agreement was accepted by later administrations until the adoption of the Twenty-fifth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution in 1967. Nixon’s vice presidency was also noteworthy for his many well-publicized trips abroad, including a 1958 tour of Latin America—a trip that journalist Walter Lippmann termed a “diplomatic Pearl Harbor”—during which his car was stoned, slapped, and spat upon by anti-American protesters, and a 1959 visit to the Soviet Union, highlighted by an impromptu profanity-filled “kitchen debate” in Moscow with Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev. Dwight D. Eisenhower and Richard Nixon at the 1956 Republican conventionDwight D. Eisenhower (left) and Richard M. Nixon after being renominated at the 1956 Republican National Convention in San Francisco.Courtesy of the Dwight D. Eisenhower Library/U.S. Army Richard M. Nixon and Pat NixonU.S. Vice Pres. Richard M. Nixon and his wife, Pat, receiving flowers from a young girl during a visit to South Korea in 1953.U.S. Department of Defense Election of 1960 Nixon received his party’s presidential nomination and was opposed in the 1960 general election by Democrat John F. Kennedy. The campaign was memorable for an unprecedented series of four televised debates between the two candidates. Although Nixon performed well rhetorically, Kennedy managed to convey an appealing image of youthfulness, energy, and physical poise, which convinced many that he had won the debates. In the closest presidential contest since Grover Cleveland defeated James G. Blaine in 1884, Nixon lost to Kennedy by fewer than 120,000 popular votes. Citing irregularities in Illinois and Texas, many observers questioned whether Kennedy had legally won those states, and some prominent Republicans—including Eisenhower—even urged Nixon to contest the results. He chose not to, however, declaring that Richard M. Nixon and John F. Kennedy in presidential debateRichard M. Nixon (left) and John F. Kennedy during a live television broadcast of their fourth presidential debate, New York City, 1960. AP American presidential election, 1960Results of the American presidential election, 1960. Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the Office of the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001).Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. I could think of no worse example for nations abroad, who for the first time were trying to put free electoral procedures into effect, than that of the United States wrangling over the results of our presidential election, and even suggesting that the presidency itself could be stolen by thievery at the ballot box. Nixon’s supporters and critics alike, both then and later, praised him for the dignity and unselfishness with which he handled defeat and the suspicion that vote fraud had cost him the presidency. Nixon then retired to private life in California, where he wrote a best-selling book, Six Crises (1961). In 1962 he reluctantly decided to run for governor of California but lost to incumbent Democrat Edmund G. (“Pat”) Brown. In a memorable postelection news conference, he announced his retirement from politics and attacked the press, declaring that it would not “have Dick Nixon to kick around anymore.” He moved to New York City to practice law and over the next few years built a reputation as an expert in foreign affairs and a leader who could appeal to both moderates and conservatives in his party. Presidency Nixon won the Republican nomination for president in 1968 by putting together a coalition that included Southern conservatives led by Sen. Strom Thurmond of South Carolina. In exchange for Southern support, Nixon promised to appoint “strict constructionists” to the federal judiciary, to name a Southerner to the Supreme Court, to oppose court-ordered busing, and to choose a vice presidential candidate acceptable to the South. With Maryland Gov. Spiro Agnew as his running mate, Nixon campaigned against Democrat Hubert H. Humphrey and third-party candidate George Wallace on a vague platform promising an honourable peace in Vietnam—Nixon said that he had a “secret plan” to end the war—the restoration of law and order in the cities, a crackdown on illegal drugs, and an end to the draft. Humphrey, who as Lyndon B. Johnson’s vice president was heavily burdened by the latter’s unpopular Vietnam policies, called for an end to the bombing of North Vietnam as “an acceptable risk for peace.” Johnson himself halted the bombing on October 31, less than one week before the election, in preparation for direct negotiations with Hanoi. Had he taken this step earlier, Humphrey might have won the election, as polls showed him gaining rapidly on Nixon in the final days of the campaign. Nixon won the election by a narrow margin, 31.7 million popular votes to Humphrey’s nearly 30.9 million; the electoral vote was 301 to 191. Richard M. Nixon campaign buttonButton from Richard M. Nixon's 1968 presidential campaign.Americana/Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Richard M. Nixon campaign bumper stickerBumper sticker with the slogan “Nixon's the One!” for Richard M. Nixon's 1968 presidential campaign. Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. American presidential election, 1968Results of the American presidential election, 1968. Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the Office of the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001).Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Richard M. Nixon and Gerald FordRichard M. Nixon (right) accepting the Republican Party's U.S. presidential nomination in 1968. At left is Gerald Ford, the Republican leader of the House of Representatives.AP Images Domestic policies Richard M. Nixon's first inaugural addressU.S. Pres. Richard M. Nixon delivering his first inaugural address, January 20, 1969.Public Domain See how the Vietnam War, Cold War diplomacy, and the Watergate scandal defined Richard Nixon's presidencyAn overview of Richard Nixon.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article Despite expectations from some observers that Nixon would be a “do-nothing” president, his administration undertook a number of important reforms in welfare policy, civil rights, law enforcement, the environment, and other areas. Nixon’s proposed Family Assistance Program (FAP), intended to replace the service-oriented Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC), would have provided working and nonworking poor families with a guaranteed annual income—though Nixon preferred to call it a “negative income tax.” Although the measure was defeated in the Senate, its failure helped to generate support for incremental legislation incorporating similar ideas—such as Supplemental Security Income (SSI), which provided a guaranteed income to the elderly, the blind, and the disabled; and automatic cost-of-living adjustments (COLAs) for Social Security recipients—and it also prompted the expansion and improvement of existing programs, such as food stamps and health insurance for low-income families. In the area of civil rights, Nixon’s administration instituted so-called “set aside” policies to reserve a certain percentage of jobs for minorities on federally funded construction projects—the first “ affirmative action” program. Although Nixon opposed school busing and delayed taking action on desegregation until federal court orders forced his hand, his administration drastically reduced the percentage of African American students attending all-black schools. In addition, funding for many federal civil rights agencies, in particular the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), was substantially increased while Nixon was in office. In response to pressure from consumer and environmental groups, Nixon proposed legislation that created the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). His revenue-sharing program, called “New Federalism,” provided state and local governments with billions of federal tax dollars. Richard M. NixonRichard M. Nixon, 1970.UPI/Bettmann Archive Prior to 1973 the most important of Nixon’s domestic problems was the economy. In order to reduce inflation he initially tried to restrict federal spending, but beginning in 1971 his budget proposals contained deficits of several billion dollars, the largest in American history up to that time. Nixon’s New Economic Policy, announced in August 1971 in response to continuing inflation, increasing unemployment, and a deteriorating trade deficit, included an 8 percent devaluation of the dollar, new surcharges on imports, and unprecedented peacetime controls on wages and prices. These policies produced temporary improvements in the economy by the end of 1972, but, once price and wage controls were lifted, inflation returned with a vengeance, reaching 8.8 percent in 1973 and 12.2 percent in 1974. Richard M. NixonRichard M. Nixon.© Dennis Brack—Black Star/PNI Foreign affairs Vietnam War Examine President Nixon's threefold plan to unilaterally de-escalate the Vietnam WarWhile conducting negotiations with North Vietnam, U.S. President Richard M. Nixon began a program of “de-escalation,” or reduction of U.S. combat forces, and of “Vietnamization,” or development of South Vietnam's ability to wage war on its own. From Vietnam Perspective (1985), a documentary by Encyclopædia Britannica Educational Corporation.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article Aiming to achieve “peace with honor” in the Vietnam War, Nixon gradually reduced the number of U.S. military personnel in Vietnam. Under his policy of “ Vietnamization,” combat roles were transferred to South Vietnamese troops, who nevertheless remained heavily dependent on American supplies and air support. At the same time, however, Nixon resumed the bombing of North Vietnam (suspended by President Johnson in October 1968) and expanded the air and ground war to neighbouring Cambodia and Laos. In the spring of 1970, U.S. and South Vietnamese forces attacked North Vietnamese sanctuaries in Cambodia, which prompted widespread protests in the United States; one of these demonstrations—at Kent State University on May 4, 1970—ended tragically when soldiers of the Ohio National Guard fired into a crowd of about 2,000 protesters, killing four and wounding nine. Richard M. Nixon and the end of the Vietnam WarU.S. Pres. Richard M. Nixon announcing the end of the Vietnam War, January 23, 1973.Public Domain After intensive negotiations between National Security Adviser Henry Kissinger and North Vietnamese Foreign Minister Le Duc Tho, the two sides reached an agreement in October 1972, and Kissinger announced, “Peace is at hand.” But the South Vietnamese raised objections, and the agreement quickly broke down. An intensive 11-day bombing campaign of Hanoi and other North Vietnamese cities in late December (the “Christmas bombings”) was followed by more negotiations, and a new agreement was finally reached in January 1973 and signed in Paris. It included an immediate cease-fire, the withdrawal of all American military personnel, the release of all prisoners of war, and an international force to keep the peace. For their work on the accord, Kissinger and Tho were awarded the 1973 Nobel Prize for Peace (though Tho declined the honour). China and the Soviet Union Richard M. Nixon's trip to ChinaSee how the Richard Nixon Presidential Library and Museum, in California, commemorated the U.S. president's historic 1972 trip to China.© CCTV America (A Britannica Publishing Partner)See all videos for this article Nixon’s most significant achievement in foreign affairs may have been the establishment of direct relations with the People’s Republic of China after a 21-year estrangement. Following a series of low-level diplomatic contacts in 1970 and the lifting of U.S. trade and travel restrictions the following year, the Chinese indicated that they would welcome high-level discussions, and Nixon sent his national security adviser, Henry Kissinger, to China for secret talks. The thaw in relations became apparent with the “ping-pong diplomacy” conducted by American and Chinese table-tennis teams in reciprocal visits in 1971–72. Nixon’s visit to China in February–March 1972, the first by an American president while in office, concluded with the Shanghai Communiqué, in which the United States formally recognized the “one-China” principle—that there is only one China, and that Taiwan is a part of China. Richard M. Nixon and Zhou EnlaiU.S. Pres. Richard M. Nixon (left) with Chinese Premier Zhou Enlai, Beijing, 1972.Courtesy, Richard M. Nixon Presidential Library and Museum/NARA The rapprochement with China, undertaken in part to take advantage of the growing Sino-Soviet rift in the late 1960s, gave Nixon more leverage in his dealings with the Soviet Union. By 1971 the Soviets were more amenable to improved relations with the United States, and in May 1972 Nixon paid a state visit to Moscow to sign 10 formal agreements, the most important of which were the nuclear arms limitation treaties known as SALT I (based on the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks conducted between the United States and the Soviet Union beginning in 1969) and a memorandum, the Basic Principles of U.S.-Soviet Relations, summarizing the new relationship between the two countries in the new era of détente. The Middle East and Latin America Nixon was less successful in the Middle East, where his administration’s comprehensive plan for peace, the Rogers Plan (named for Nixon’s first secretary of state, William Rogers), was rejected by both Israel and the Soviet Union. After the 1973 Arab-Israeli war (the “Yom Kippur War”), Kissinger’s back-and-forth visits between the Arab states and Israel (dubbed “shuttle diplomacy”) helped to broker disengagement agreements but did little to improve U.S. relations with the Arabs. Fearing communist revolution in Latin America, the Nixon administration helped to undermine the coalition government of Chile’s Marxist Pres. Salvador Allende, elected in 1970. After Allende nationalized American-owned mining companies, the administration restricted Chile’s access to international economic assistance and discouraged private investment, increased aid to the Chilean military, cultivated secret contacts with anti-Allende police and military officials, and undertook various other destabilizing measures, including funneling millions of dollars in covert payments to Chilean opposition groups in 1970–73. In September 1973 Allende was overthrown in a military coup led by army commander in chief Gen. Augusto Pinochet. Watergate and other scandals Renominated with Agnew in 1972, Nixon defeated his Democratic challenger, liberal Sen. George S. McGovern, in one of the largest landslide victories in the history of American presidential elections: 46.7 million to 28.9 million in the popular vote and 520 to 17 in the electoral vote. Despite his resounding victory, Nixon would soon be forced to resign in disgrace in the worst political scandal in United States history. American presidential election, 1972Results of the American presidential election, 1972. Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the Office of the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001).Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The Watergate scandal stemmed from illegal activities by Nixon and his aides related to the burglary and wiretapping of the national headquarters of the Democratic Party at the Watergate office complex in Washington, D.C.; eventually it came to encompass allegations of other loosely related crimes committed both before and after the break-in. The five men involved in the burglary, who were hired by the Republican Party’s Committee to Re-elect the President, were arrested and charged on June 17, 1972. In the days following the arrests, Nixon secretly directed the White House counsel, John Dean, to oversee a cover-up to conceal the administration’s involvement. Nixon also obstructed the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) in its inquiry and authorized secret cash payments to the Watergate burglars in an effort to prevent them from implicating the administration. Several major newspapers investigated the possible involvement of the White House in the burglary. Leading the pack was The Washington Post and its two hungry newshounds, Carl Bernstein and Bob Woodward, whose stories were based largely on information from an unnamed source called “Deep Throat.” The mysterious identity of Deep Throat became a news story in its own right and led to decades of speculation. ( W. Mark Felt, a top-ranking FBI official at the time of the investigation, revealed himself as the informant in 2005.) In February 1973 a special Senate committee—the Select Committee on Presidential Campaign Activities, chaired by Sen. Sam Ervin—was established to look into the Watergate affair. In televised committee hearings, Dean accused the president of involvement in the cover-up, and others testified to illegal activities by the administration and the campaign staff, including the use of federal agencies to harass Nixon’s perceived enemies (many of whose names appeared on an “enemies list” of prominent politicians, journalists, entertainers, academics, and others) and acts of politically inspired espionage by a special White House investigative unit, known as the “plumbers” because they investigated news leaks. Watergate ScandalWhite House reporters watching the televised Watergate address by U.S. President Richard M. Nixon on April 30, 1973.© Archive Photos In July the committee learned that in 1969 Nixon had installed a recording system in the White House and that all the president’s conversations in the Oval Office had been recorded. When the tapes were subpoenaed by Archibald Cox, the special prosecutor appointed to investigate the Watergate affair, Nixon refused to comply, offering to provide summary transcripts instead. Cox rejected the offer. Then, in a series of episodes that came to be known as the Saturday Night Massacre, Nixon ordered Attorney General Elliot Richardson to fire Cox, and Richardson resigned rather than comply. Nixon then fired Richardson’s assistant, William Ruckelshaus, when he too refused to fire Cox. Cox was finally removed by Solicitor General Robert Bork, though a federal district court subsequently ruled the action illegal. Richard M. Nixon and the Watergate scandalU.S. Pres. Richard M. Nixon announcing that he would release tapes of White House conversations regarding the Watergate scandal, November 17, 1973.Public Domain Richard M. Nixon and the Watergate scandalU.S. Pres. Richard M. Nixon speaking about the release of the Watergate tapes (“I am not a crook”), November 17, 1973.Public DomainSee all videos for this article Amid calls for his impeachment, Nixon agreed to the appointment of another special prosecutor, Leon Jaworski, and promised that he would not fire him without congressional consent. After protesting in a news conference that “I am not a crook,” Nixon released seven of the nine tapes requested by Cox, one of which contained a suspicious gap of 18 and one-half minutes. Although damning, the tapes did not contain the “smoking gun” that would prove that the president himself ordered the break-in or attempted to obstruct justice. Jaworski later subpoenaed 64 tapes that Nixon continued to withhold on grounds of “executive privilege,” and in July 1974 the Supreme Court ruled unanimously that Nixon’s claims of executive privilege were invalid. By that time the House Judiciary Committee had already voted to recommend three articles of impeachment, relating to obstruction of justice, abuse of power, and failure to comply with congressional subpoenas. On August 5, in compliance with the Supreme Court’s ruling, Nixon submitted transcripts of a conversation taped on June 23, 1972, in which he discussed a plan to use the Central Intelligence Agency to block the FBI’s investigation of the Watergate break-in. The smoking gun had finally been found. Richard M. Nixon resignation announcementU.S. Pres. Richard M. Nixon announcing his resignation from the presidency, August 8, 1974.Public Domain Faced with the near-certain prospect of impeachment by the House and conviction in the Senate, Nixon announced his resignation on the evening of August 8, 1974, effective at noon the next day. He was succeeded by Gerald Ford, whom he had appointed vice president in 1973 after Agnew resigned his office amid charges of having committed bribery, extortion, and tax evasion during his tenure as governor of Maryland. Nixon was pardoned by President Ford on September 8, 1974. Richard M. Nixon's farewell speechU.S. Pres. Richard M. Nixon giving a farewell speech at the White House, with his daughter Tricia in the background, August 8, 1974.AP Richard M. Nixon resignation letterRichard M. Nixon's presidential resignation letter, August 9, 1974.Department of State/NARA Retirement and death Nixon retired with his wife to the seclusion of his estate in San Clemente, California. He wrote RN: The Memoirs of Richard Nixon (1978) and several books on international affairs and American foreign policy, modestly rehabilitating his public reputation and earning a role as an elder statesman and foreign-policy expert. Nixon spent his last years campaigning for American political support and financial aid for Russia and the other former Soviet republics. Nixon died of a massive stroke in New York City in April 1994, 10 months after his wife’s death from lung cancer. In ceremonies after his death, Pres. Bill Clinton and other dignitaries praised him for his diplomatic achievements. He was buried beside his wife at his birthplace. Jimmy Carter, Richard M. Nixon, and Deng Xiaoping U.S. Pres. Jimmy Carter (left), former U.S. president Richard M. Nixon (centre), and Chinese Deputy Premier Deng Xiaoping (far right) in Washington, D.C., January 29, 1979.Jimmy Carter Library/National Archives, Washington, D.C. Cabinet of President Nixon The table provides a list of cabinet members in the administration of Pres. Richard Nixon. Cabinet of President Richard M. Nixon January 20, 1969–January 20, 1973 (Term 1) State William Pierce Rogers Treasury David Matthew Kennedy John Bowden Connally, Jr. (from February 11, 1971) George Pratt Shultz (from June 12, 1972) Defense Melvin Robert Laird Attorney General John Newton Mitchell Richard Gordon Kleindienst (from June 12, 1972) Interior Walter Joseph Hickel Rogers Clark Ballard Morton (from January 29, 1971) Agriculture Clifford Morris Hardin Earl Lauer Butz (from December 2, 1971) Commerce Maurice Hubert Stans Peter George Peterson (from February 21, 1972) Labor George Pratt Shultz James Day Hodgson (from July 2, 1970) Health, Education, and Welfare Robert Hutchinson Finch Elliot Lee Richardson (from June 24, 1970) Housing and Urban Development George Wilcken Romney Transportation John Anthony Volpe January 20, 1973–August 9, 1974 (Term 2) State William Pierce Rogers Henry A. Kissinger (from September 22, 1973) Treasury George Pratt Shultz William Edward Simon (from May 8, 1974) Defense Elliot Lee Richardson James Rodney Schlesinger (from July 2, 1973) Attorney General Richard Gordon Kleindienst Elliot Lee Richardson (from May 25, 1973) William Bart Saxbe (from January 4, 1974) Interior Rogers Clark Ballard Morton Agriculture Earl Lauer Butz Commerce Frederick Baily Dent Labor Peter Joseph Brennan Health, Education, and Welfare Caspar Willard Weinberger Housing and Urban Development James Thomas Lynn Transportation Claude Stout Brinegar The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica This article was most recently revised and updated by Jeff Wallenfeldt, Manager, Geography and History. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: The Richard M. Nixon administration Nixon and his national security adviser, Henry Kissinger, believed that American power relative to that of other nations had declined to the point where a fundamental reorientation was necessary. They sought improved relations with the Soviet Union to make… presidency of the United States of America Presidency of the United States of America, chief executive office of the United States. In contrast to many countries with parliamentary forms of government, where the office of president, or head of state, is mainly ceremonial, in the United States the president is vested with great authority and is arguably… 20th-century international relations: Nixon, Kissinger, and the détente experiment After eight years in the shadow of Eisenhower and eight more years out of office, Richard Nixon brought to the presidency in 1969 rich experience as an observer of foreign affairs and shrewd notions about how… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Richard Nixon Quick Facts View Media Page born January 9, 1913 Yorba Linda, California died April 22, 1994 (aged 81) New York City, New York title / office presidency of the United States of America, United States (1969-1974) vice president of the United States of America, United States (1953-1961) United States Senate, United States (1951-1953) House of Representatives, United States (1947-1951) political affiliation Republican Party role in Vietnam War Watergate Scandal Bank Secrecy Act Nixon Doctrine Strategic Arms Limitation Talks National Environmental Policy Act notable family members spouse Pat Nixon did you know? Nixon installed a bowling alley in the White House's basement. In 1974 and 1975, Nixon mandated daylight savings time year-round. Nixon founded an orange juice company that eventually failed. Nixon applied to join the FBI 32 years before he was elected president. Richard Nixon Additional Information More About Additional Reading Quotes External Websites Spartacus Educational - Biography of Richard Nixon USA 4 Kids - Biography of Richard Nixon United States Senate - Biography of Richard M. Nixon The White House - Biography of Richard M. Nixon Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Richard M. Nixon - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) Richard Nixon - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!