https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1964
United States presidential election of 1964 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1964 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction The campaign Results of the 1964 election United States presidential election of 1964 United States government Written By: Michael Levy See Article History United States presidential election of 1964, American presidential election held on November 3, 1964, in which Democratic Pres. Lyndon B. Johnson defeated Republican Barry Goldwater in one of the largest landslides in U.S. history. American presidential election, 1964Results of the American presidential election, 1964. Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the Office of the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001).Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The campaign The 1964 election occurred just less than one year after the assassination of Pres. John F. Kennedy in Dallas. Johnson, Kennedy’s vice president, was quickly sworn in, and in the subsequent days Kennedy’s presumed assassin, Lee Harvey Oswald, was murdered. To American and foreign observers alike, this created a disturbing image of disorder and violence in the United States. In the tempestuous days after the assassination, Johnson helped to calm national hysteria and ensure continuity in the presidency. On November 27 he addressed a joint session of Congress and, invoking the memory of the martyred president, urged the passage of Kennedy’s legislative agenda, which had been stalled in congressional committees. Johnson placed greatest importance on Kennedy’s civil rights bill, which became the focus of his efforts during the first months of his presidency. Lyndon B. Johnson: oath of officeLyndon B. Johnson taking the presidential oath of office, flanked by Jacqueline Kennedy (right) and Lady Bird Johnson, aboard Air Force One after the assassination of John F. Kennedy, Nov. 22, 1963.Lyndon B. Johnson Library Photo Central to the 1964 campaign was race relations, particularly with the passage of the landmark Civil Rights Act of 1964, which Johnson signed into law in July and which was intended to end discrimination based on race, colour, religion, or national origin. For most of the period since the end of the American Civil War in 1865, the Democratic Party dominated what came to be known as the “Solid South,” easily winning Southern states in most presidential elections. Johnson’s support of civil rights legislation, however, began the process that would eventually push the South consistently into the Republican column. Civil Rights Act; Lyndon B. JohnsonU.S. Pres. Lyndon B. Johnson preparing to sign the Civil Rights Act during a ceremony at the White House on July 2, 1964.© Bettmann/Corbis Barry Goldwater, a U.S. senator from Arizona, won several key primary victories against Nelson Rockefeller in a bitter contest and was nominated on the first ballot at the Republican convention in July in San Francisco, California, just two weeks after the Civil Rights Act had been signed. Goldwater had voted against the act, and he was a staunch anticommunist and a strong proponent of reduced federal activity in all fields. Goldwater selected Rep. William E. Miller of New York as his running mate. Goldwater’s nomination was not without controversy, since many Republican moderates considered Goldwater outside the party mainstream; at the convention Rockefeller received a loud chorus of boos as he spoke. Indeed, a poll in June had indicated that more than three-fifths of rank-and-file Republicans favoured William Scranton, governor of Pennsylvania, for the party nomination. Goldwater, Barry M.Barry M. Goldwater, 1964.© Archive Photos Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today During the spring Alabama Gov. George C. Wallace, an opponent of racial integration, had entered primaries in a number of Northern states in an effort to demonstrate the existence of a Northern white anti-civil rights “backlash” vote. Wallace won 30 percent or more of the Democratic vote in the Wisconsin, Indiana, and Maryland primaries. At the Democratic convention in late August in Atlantic City, New Jersey, Johnson was renominated, along with Minnesota Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey as his running mate. The convention, however, was the scene of a major civil rights controversy. The Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party (MFDP), a largely African American group, challenged the credentials of the all-white Mississippi regular Democratic delegation (who had been elected in a discriminatory poll). MFDP member and black activist Fannie Lou Hamer—who earlier had famously declared, “I’m sick and tired of being sick and tired”—made an impassioned plea to the credentials committee: U.S. presidential election of 1964: Democratic National ConventionTicket for the 1964 Democratic National Convention in Atlantic City, New Jersey.Courtesy of Michael Levy If the Freedom Democratic Party is not seated now, I question America. Is this America, the land of the free and the home of the brave, where we have to sleep with our telephones off the hooks because our lives be threatened daily, because we want to live as decent human beings, in America?” A compromise was worked out for the MFDP to take two seats, but the MFDP refused, and eventually most of the official Mississippi Democratic Party delegation left the convention, since they refused to support Johnson against Goldwater. Goldwater made moral leadership a major theme of his campaign. In a move widely interpreted as an appeal to the “backlash,” Goldwater placed heavy emphasis during his campaign on lawlessness and crime in big cities. The Republican Party made little effort to court the vote of African Americans, and black voters would move in great numbers to the Democrats, providing Johnson his margin of victory in states such as Florida, Tennessee, and Virginia. Although foreign affairs had not been a central issue in much of the campaign, American military involvement in Vietnam did weigh heavily on Johnson. During the primary campaign in California, Rockefeller cast the conservative Goldwater as a risky choice, asking in a mailing, “Who do you want in the room with the H-bomb button?” Resurrecting Rockefeller’s line of attack, the Democrats produced the so-called Daisy ad, one of the most powerful television advertisements in presidential election history, which showed a little girl in a field picking flower petals. As she counts up, a countdown begins that leads to a nuclear mushroom cloud, an allusion to Goldwater’s past statements that nuclear bombs might be used tactically in Vietnam. The mushroom cloud was then followed by Johnson’s voice, saying that “these are the stakes” in the election. The ad ran only once but synthesized in many people’s minds the view that Goldwater was too extreme for the presidency. When the votes were cast on November 3, Johnson defeated Goldwater handily, winning by more than 15 million votes and capturing 61 percent of the vote. The electoral vote domination was even greater; Johnson won 44 states and Washington, D.C., for 486 electoral votes, while Goldwater won 6 states accounting for 52 electoral votes. Goldwater did poorly in traditionally Republican areas, but, largely on the basis of Goldwater’s opposition to the civil rights bill and his promotion of states’ rights, he carried Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, and South Carolina, in addition to his home state of Arizona. Lyndon B. Johnson campaign buttonButton from Lyndon B. Johnson's 1964 U.S. presidential campaign.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1960. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1968. Michael Levy Results of the 1964 election The results of the 1964 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1964 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the Office of the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001). Lyndon B. Johnson Democratic 486 42,825,463 Barry M. Goldwater Republican 52 27,146,969 Eric Hass Socialist Labor 45,219 Clifton DeBerry Socialist Workers 32,720 E. Harold Munn Prohibition 23,267 Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: The Great Society …national trauma, and in the election of 1964 he won a landslide victory over his Republican opponent, the conservative senator Barry Goldwater of Arizona. More importantly, the Democrats gained 38 seats in the House of Representatives that year, enough to override the conservative bloc and enact a body of liberal… Lyndon B. Johnson: Election and the Vietnam War In the presidential election of 1964, Johnson was opposed by conservative Republican Barry Goldwater. During the campaign Johnson portrayed himself as level-headed and reliable and suggested that Goldwater was a reckless extremist who might lead the country into a nuclear war. When Republican supporters of Goldwater declared,… Republican Party: History …in severe turmoil at their 1964 convention, where moderates and conservatives battled for control of the party. Ultimately, the conservatives secured the nomination of Sen. Barry M. Goldwater, who lost by a landslide to Pres. Lyndon B. Johnson, Kennedy’s vice president and successor. By 1968 the party’s moderate faction regained… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1964 Quick Facts date November 3, 1964 participants Barry Goldwater Hubert Humphrey Lyndon B. Johnson William E. Miller key people Ronald Reagan related topics Democratic Party Prohibition Party Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1964 Additional Information More About External Websites Maps of World - U.S. Presidential Election 1964 History Central - United States Presidential Election of 1964 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!