https://www.britannica.com/biography/Barry-Goldwater
Barry Goldwater | Biography & Achievements | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Barry Goldwater United States senator Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Barry Goldwater United States senator Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Alternative Title: Barry Morris Goldwater Barry Goldwater, in full Barry Morris Goldwater, (born January 1, 1909, Phoenix, Arizona, U.S.—died May 29, 1998, Paradise Valley, Arizona), U.S. senator from Arizona (1953–64, 1969–87) and Republican presidential candidate in 1964. Goldwater dropped out of college and began working in his family’s Phoenix department store, Goldwater’s, of which he was president from 1937 to 1953. He was elected to the Phoenix city council in 1949, and in 1952 he narrowly won election to the U.S. Senate. He was reelected in 1958 by a large majority. A conservative Republican, he called for a harsher diplomatic stance toward the Soviet Union, opposed arms-control negotiations with that country, and charged the Democrats with creating a quasi-socialist state at home. After winning several key victories in the 1964 primary elections, Goldwater won the Republican presidential nomination on the first ballot. He fought a determined campaign against the incumbent president, Lyndon B. Johnson, but national prosperity worked in Johnson’s favour, and Goldwater was handicapped by the charge that he was an extreme anticommunist who might carry the country into war with the Soviet Union. Goldwater and his vice presidential running mate, William E. Miller, were decisively defeated in the election (November 3); they carried only Arizona and five states in the Deep South. Barry Goldwater.The Lyndon Baines Johnson Library and Museum In 1968 Goldwater was reelected to the Senate and was reelected thereafter until he retired in 1987. He led the delegation of senior Republican politicians who on August 7, 1974, persuaded President Richard M. Nixon to resign from office. Goldwater moderated many of his views in later years and became a symbol of high-minded conservative Republicanism. His published works include The Conscience of a Conservative (1960), The Coming Breakpoint (1976), and With No Apologies (1979). Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today This article was most recently revised and updated by Adam Augustyn, Managing Editor, Reference Content. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Phoenix: Government …later Republican Party presidential nominee Barry M. Goldwater, who became a member of the city council in 1949—implemented several key organizational reforms.… Lyndon B. Johnson: Election and the Vietnam War …was opposed by conservative Republican Barry Goldwater. During the campaign Johnson portrayed himself as level-headed and reliable and suggested that Goldwater was a reckless extremist who might lead the country into a nuclear war. When Republican supporters of Goldwater declared, “In your heart, you know he’s right,” Democrats responded by… Republican Party: History Barry M. Goldwater, who lost by a landslide to Pres. Lyndon B. Johnson, Kennedy’s vice president and successor. By 1968 the party’s moderate faction regained control and again nominated Nixon, who narrowly won the popular vote over Hubert H. Humphrey, Johnson’s vice president. Many Southern… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Barry Goldwater Quick Facts View Media Page born January 1, 1909 Phoenix, Arizona died May 29, 1998 (aged 89) Paradise Valley, Arizona title / office United States Senate, United States (1969-1987) United States Senate, United States (1953-1964) political affiliation Republican Party Barry Goldwater Additional Information More About Quotes External Websites Spartacus Educational - Biography of Barry Goldwater Stanford University - The Martin Luther King, Jr., Research and Education Institute - Biography of Barry M. Goldwater National Aviation Hall of Fame - Biography of Barry Morris Goldwater Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Barry Goldwater - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!