https://www.britannica.com/biography/Hubert-Humphrey
Hubert Humphrey | Biography, Facts, & Presidential Candidacy | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Hubert Humphrey vice president of United States Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Hubert Humphrey vice president of United States Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Alternative Titles: Hubert Horatio Humphrey, Jr. Hubert Humphrey, in full Hubert Horatio Humphrey, Jr., (born May 27, 1911, Wallace, South Dakota, U.S.—died January 13, 1978, Waverly, Minnesota), 38th vice president of the United States (1965–69) in the Democratic administration of Pres. Lyndon B. Johnson and presidential candidate of the Democratic Party in 1968. A liberal leader in the United States Senate (1949–65; 1971–78), he built his political base on a Democrat–Farmer-Labor coalition reminiscent of the Populist Movement. Hubert HumphreyHubert HumphreyPaul Conklin Hubert Humphrey was the son of Hubert H. Humphrey, Sr., a pharmacist, and Christine Sannes. After studying pharmacy and working in his family’s drugstore in South Dakota, Humphrey moved to Minneapolis to enter the University of Minnesota, where he received his bachelor’s degree in 1939. He did graduate work at Louisiana State University and returned to Minnesota to teach college and work as a radio commentator in the Twin Cities. In 1944 he became the Minnesota campaign manager for U.S. Pres. Franklin D. Roosevelt. During this period he was instrumental in merging the state’s Democratic and Farmer-Labor parties. After an unsuccessful bid for mayor of Minneapolis in 1943, Humphrey won election two years later. At the Democratic National Convention in 1948, he led an unsuccessful effort to include a strong civil rights plank in the party’s presidential platform. In the same year, he was elected to the United States Senate, where he served for the next 16 years; in 1961 he became assistant majority leader. As a senator, he developed a reputation as an effective, outspoken debater, a prolific initiator of legislation, and a skilled parliamentary leader. He won particular acclaim for achieving bipartisan support for the Nuclear Test-Ban Treaty (1963) and the Civil Rights Act (1964). When he became vice president under Lyndon B. Johnson, Humphrey’s earlier reputation as a glib and sometimes abrasive “do-gooder” was supplanted by a more conservative image, especially after he defended American participation in the Vietnam War, and he was often vilified by left-wing opponents of the Johnson administration. As vice president, he served as chairman of the National Advisory Council of the Peace Corps, coordinator of the antipoverty program, and chairman of the Civil Rights Council, and he worked with Congress to pass the Voting Rights Act and Medicare. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Study the powers granted to the head of the U.S. executive branch and how to avoid falling into a dictatorshipAfter losing the 1968 race, Hubert Humphrey shared his thoughts on whether American presidents have too much power.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article Following Johnson’s withdrawal from the 1968 presidential election, Humphrey sought the Democratic nomination, though he chose not to contest primaries against Eugene McCarthy and Robert F. Kennedy, who was assassinated on the night of the California primary. Although the party was deeply divided, Humphrey captured the nomination at a tumultuous convention in Chicago but trailed far behind Republican Richard M. Nixon in the polls. His fortunes began to reverse at the end of September, when he announced his plans to halt the bombing campaign in North Vietnam if he were elected. Rising steadily in the polls throughout October, he eventually lost by only 510,000 votes, one of the slimmest margins in any U.S. presidential election. Many observers concluded that he would have won the election had it been held a week later. American presidential election, 1968Results of the American presidential election, 1968. Sources: Electoral and popular vote totals based on data from the Office of the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives and Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, 4th ed. (2001).Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. After leaving office, he pursued his interest in education by teaching at Macalester College in St. Paul, Minnesota, and at the University of Minnesota and by serving as a consultant to Encyclopædia Britannica. He was reelected to the Senate in 1970 as a Democratic–Farmer-Labor Party candidate. He unsuccessfully sought the Democratic nomination for president in 1972 and considered a presidential bid in 1976. Afterward he wrote his autobiography, The Education of a Public Man: My Life and Politics (1976, reissued 1991), and played an active role as elder statesman and party sage in the Senate. Observers both in and out of the Senate regarded him as one of the giants in the history of that body. Hubert Humphrey's signatureVisitor's pass to the U.S. Senate bearing the signature of Hubert H. Humphrey, 1976.Courtesy of Michael Levy The Editors of Encyclopaedia BritannicaThis article was most recently revised and updated by Jeff Wallenfeldt, Manager, Geography and History. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: The Vietnam War Hubert H. Humphrey at the Democratic National Convention at Chicago, where violence again erupted as antiwar demonstrators were manhandled by local police. Humphrey lost the election to the Republican nominee, former vice president Richard Nixon. The narrowness of Nixon’s margin resulted from a third-party campaign… Minnesota: Constitutional framework senators and vice presidents Hubert H. Humphrey and Walter Mondale, each of whom was also the Democratic Party’s candidate for president (in 1968 and 1984, respectively); Sen. Eugene J. McCarthy, who ran for the presidency four times between 1968 and 1992; and Sen. Paul Wellstone, a liberal champion of… Minnesota: Adaptation and growth …party’s influential liberal leaders were Hubert H. Humphrey, Eugene J. McCarthy, and Walter F. Mondale, all of whom went on to serve in the U.S. Senate.… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Hubert Humphrey Quick Facts View Media Page born May 27, 1911 Wallace, South Dakota died January 13, 1978 (aged 66) Waverly, Minnesota title / office United States Senate, United States (1971-1978) vice president of the United States of America, United States (1965-1969) United States Senate, United States (1949-1965) political affiliation Democratic Party role in Wilderness Act Poor People’s Campaign Hubert Humphrey Additional Information More About Quotes External Websites LBJ Presidential Library - Biography of Hubert Horatio Humphrey United States Senate - Hubert H. Humphrey, 38th Vice President MNopedia - Biography of Hubert H. Humphrey Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Hubert H. Humphrey - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!