https://www.britannica.com/biography/George-C-Wallace
George Wallace | Biography, Facts, & 1968 Presidential Candidacy | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 George Wallace American politician Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter George Wallace American politician Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Alternative Titles: George C. Wallace, George Corley Wallace George Wallace, in full George Corley Wallace, also called George C. Wallace, (born August 25, 1919, Clio, Alabama, U.S.—died September 13, 1998, Montgomery), U.S. Democratic Party politician and four-time governor of Alabama who led the South’s fight against federally ordered racial integration in the 1960s. A farmer’s son, Wallace worked his way through the University of Alabama Law School, graduating in 1942. Following military service in World War II, he served as assistant state’s attorney (1946), after which he was elected to two terms in the state legislature. He was elected a judge of the Third Judicial Circuit of Alabama in 1953, and in 1958 he ran unsuccessfully for the governorship, losing the Democratic nomination (which was tantamount to election) to a segregationist candidate who had been endorsed by the Ku Klux Klan. Abandoning his moderate stance on integration, Wallace soon became known as the “fighting judge” owing to his defiance of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights’ investigation of discrimination in black voting rights. He held his judicial post until 1959. Wallace won the governorship of Alabama in 1962 on a platform emphasizing segregation and economic issues. Within his first year in office he kept his pledge “to stand in the schoolhouse door” by blocking the enrollment of black students at the University of Alabama (June 1963). Declaring that the federal government was usurping state authority in the field of education, he yielded only in the face of the federalized National Guard. Further confrontations at Tuskegee, Birmingham, Huntsville, and Mobile made him a nationwide symbol of intransigence toward racial integration in the schools. Though a segregationist during this period, Wallace could more accurately be termed a populist who seized on the issues that appealed to the majority of his white constituents. The civil-rights issue was a means for him to enter the national spotlight. Because Wallace was legally ineligible for reelection, his first wife, Lurleen, successfully ran for governor in 1966, but she died in office in 1968. That year Wallace was a vigorous but unsuccessful third-party candidate for the U.S. presidency, winning 13 percent of the vote and five Southern states as the nominee of the anti-liberal American Independent Party. He drew support mainly from white Southerners and blue-collar workers disenchanted with Democratic policies. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Wallace won Alabama’s governorship again in 1970, but in 1972, while campaigning for the Democratic presidential nomination, he was wounded and left permanently paralyzed below the waist in an assassination attempt on May 15, 1972, at Laurel, Maryland. He was reelected to the governorship in 1974, and he again campaigned for the Democratic presidential nomination in 1976. In the 1980s Wallace renounced his segregationist ideology and sought reconciliation with civil rights leaders. In 1982 he sought a new term as governor and won the election with substantial support from black voters. He retired from politics in 1987 because of ill health. While Wallace never achieved national office, many political analysts consider his presidential campaign to have been highly influential within American politics. Many (including Wallace himself) claimed that populist U.S. presidencies with anti-Washington leanings—such as those of Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan—were helped by ideas made familiar to the American public by George Wallace. This article was most recently revised and updated by Jeff Wallenfeldt, Manager, Geography and History. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: The Vietnam War …the former governor of Alabama, George Wallace, who attracted conservative votes that would otherwise have gone to Nixon. Democrats retained large majorities in both houses of Congress.… assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr.: The assassin: James Earl Ray …third-party presidential candidacy of segregationist George Wallace, for whose campaign he volunteered. His support for Wallace was twinned with a special enmity for King, whose civil rights successes in Alabama Ray saw as affronts to Wallace, that state’s governor. Some of Ray’s prison friends said later that King’s appearances on… Republican Party: History …vote for the anti-integration candidate George C. Wallace. Importantly, the 1964 and 1968 elections signaled the death of the Democratic “Solid South,” as both Goldwater and Nixon made significant inroads there. In 1964, 5 of the 6 states won by Goldwater were in the South; in 1968, 11 Southern states… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. George Wallace Quick Facts View Media Page born August 25, 1919 Clio, Alabama died September 13, 1998 (aged 79) Montgomery, Alabama title / office governor, Alabama (1982-1987) governor, Alabama (1970-1974) governor, Alabama (1962-1966) political affiliation Democratic Party George Wallace Additional Information More About Additional Reading External Websites Spartacus Educational - Biography of George Wallace Encyclopedia of Alabama - Biography of George C. Wallace United States History - Biography of George Wallace Alabama Department of Archives and History - Biography of George C. Wallace ReligionFacts - Christianity Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. George Corley Wallace - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!