https://www.britannica.com/biography/George-McGovern
George McGovern | Biography, Presidential Candidacy, & Opposition to Vietnam War | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 George McGovern United States senator Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter George McGovern United States senator Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Alternative Title: George Stanley McGovern George McGovern, in full George Stanley McGovern, (born July 19, 1922, Avon, South Dakota, U.S.—died October 21, 2012, Sioux Falls, South Dakota), American politician who was an unsuccessful reformist Democratic candidate for the U.S. presidency in 1972. He campaigned on a platform advocating an immediate end to the Vietnam War and for a broad program of liberal social and economic reforms at home. After service as a pilot in World War II, for which he was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross, George McGovern earned a Ph.D. in history at Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois, and later taught at Dakota Wesleyan University, Mitchell, South Dakota. He was active in Democratic politics beginning in 1948 and served in the U.S. House of Representatives (1957–61). After losing an election for a Senate seat in South Dakota in 1960, he served for two years as the director of the Food for Peace Program under U.S. Pres. John F. Kennedy. Stressing farm-support programs, McGovern won election to the U.S. Senate in 1962 and was reelected in 1968. By then he had emerged as one of the leading opponents to the United States’ continued military involvement in Indochina. As chairman of a Commission on Party Structure and Delegate Selection prior to the Democratic National Convention in 1972, McGovern helped enact party reforms that gave increased representation to minority groups at the convention. Supported by these groups, he won the presidential nomination but alienated many of the more traditional elements in the Democratic Party. McGovern was unable to unify the party sufficiently to offer an effective challenge to the incumbent Republican president, Richard M. Nixon, who defeated him by an overwhelming margin. McGovern was reelected to the Senate in 1974, but he lost his seat in 1980 to a Republican opponent supported by right-wing groups. After lecturing as a visiting professor in foreign policy at several universities, including Northwestern University, McGovern declared himself a candidate for the 1984 Democratic presidential nomination, but he decided to drop out of the race after a third-place finish in the Massachusetts primary—the only state that he had carried in the 1972 election. Although unsuccessful, his 1984 bid for the nomination did serve to reassert his status as a noted American spokesman for liberal causes. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today McGovern wrote a number of books, including the autobiography Grassroots (1977) and What It Means to Be a Democrat (2011). This article was most recently revised and updated by Jeff Wallenfeldt, Manager, Geography and History. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: The Watergate scandal George McGovern of South Dakota, who won only Massachusetts and the District of Columbia.… South Dakota: Constitutional framework …state since territorial times, though George McGovern, the Democratic candidate for president in 1972, built his political base in South Dakota, representing it in the House and then the Senate, and another Democrat, Tom Daschle, served as Senate minority and (briefly) majority leader in the 1990s and early 2000s. Also… Richard Nixon: Watergate and other scandals George S. McGovern, in one of the largest landslide victories in the history of American presidential elections: 46.7 million to 28.9 million in the popular vote and 520 to 17 in the electoral vote. (See primary source document: Second Inaugural Address.) Despite his resounding victory,… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. George McGovern Quick Facts View Media Page born July 19, 1922 Avon, South Dakota died October 21, 2012 (aged 90) Sioux Falls, South Dakota title / office United States Senate, United States (1962-1980) house of representatives, United States (1957-1960) political affiliation Democratic Party George McGovern Additional Information More About External Websites Spartacus Educational - Biography of George McGovern Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. George McGovern - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!