https://www.britannica.com/biography/Jimmy-Carter
Jimmy Carter | Biography & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents Jimmy Carter president of United States Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction & Quick Facts Early life and political career Presidency Life after the presidency Cabinet of Pres. Jimmy Carter Jimmy Carter president of United States Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Apr 17, 2020 See Article History Alternative Titles: James Earl Carter, Jr. Analyze Jimmy Carter's shortcomings as U.S. president and his Nobel Prize-winning humanitarian workAn overview of Jimmy Carter.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article Jimmy Carter, in full James Earl Carter, Jr., (born October 1, 1924, Plains, Georgia, U.S. ), 39th president of the United States (1977–81), who served as the country’s chief executive during a time of serious problems at home and abroad. His perceived inability to deal successfully with those problems led to an overwhelming defeat in his bid for reelection. However, for his work in diplomacy and advocacy, both during and after his presidency, he was awarded the Nobel Prize for Peace in 2002. Jimmy Carter: key eventsKey events in the life of Jimmy Carter.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Jimmy Carter: Nobel Peace PrizeJimmy Carter with the Nobel Peace Prize he was awarded in 2002.The Carter Center Early life and political career The son of Earl Carter, a peanut warehouser who had served in the Georgia state legislature, and Lillian Gordy Carter, a registered nurse who went to India as a Peace Corps volunteer at age 68, Carter attended Georgia Southwestern College and the Georgia Institute of Technology before graduating from the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland, in 1946. After marrying Rosalynn Smith (Rosalynn Carter)—who came from Carter’s small hometown, Plains, Georgia—he embarked on a seven-year career in the U.S. Navy, serving submarine duty for five years. He was preparing to become an engineering officer for the submarine Seawolf in 1953 when his father died. Carter resigned his commission and returned to Georgia to manage the family peanut farm operations. Jimmy Carter's boyhoodJimmy Carter as a boy sitting atop a Shetland pony on his family's farm near Plains, Georgia, U.S. Jimmy Carter Library Jimmy Carter and Rosalynn CarterJimmy Carter and Rosalynn Smith on their wedding day, July 7, 1946.Jimmy Carter Library Jimmy Carter: navy serviceJimmy Carter (centre, standing) aboard a U.S. Navy submarine. Jimmy Carter Library Beginning his political career by serving on the local board of education, Carter won election as a Democrat to the Georgia State Senate in 1962 and was reelected in 1964. In 1966 he failed in a bid for the governorship and, depressed by this experience, found solace in Evangelical Christianity, becoming a born-again Baptist. Prior to running again for governor and winning in 1970, Carter at least tacitly adhered to a segregationist approach. However, in his inaugural address he announced that “the time for racial discrimination is over” and proceeded to open Georgia’s government offices to blacks—and to women. As governor, he reorganized the existing maze of state agencies and consolidated them into larger units while introducing stricter budgeting procedures for them. In the process he came to national attention, finding his way onto the cover of Time magazine as a symbol of both good government and the “New South.” Jimmy Carter: state senate campaign posterCampaign poster for one of Jimmy Carter's successful runs for the Georgia State Senate. Jimmy Carter Library In 1974, just before his term as governor ended, Carter announced his candidacy for the Democratic nomination for president. Although lacking a national political base or major backing, he managed through tireless and systematic campaigning to assemble a broad constituency. In the aftermath of the Watergate scandal, which had raised widespread concern about the power of the presidency and the integrity of the executive branch, Carter styled himself as an outsider to Washington, D.C., a man of strong principles who could restore the faith of the American people in their leaders. Ironically, Carter’s moral stance and candour caused a small stir when, during the campaign, he admitted in an interview with Playboy magazine that he had “committed adultery in [his] heart many times.” Jimmy Carter campaign button, 1976Button from Jimmy Carter's 1976 U.S. presidential campaign.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Jimmy Carter campaign button, 1976Button from Jimmy Carter's 1976 U.S. presidential campaign.Americana/Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Jimmy Carter: Democratic presidential nomination acceptance speechJimmy Carter delivering his acceptance speech as the Democratic Party's nominee in the 1976 U.S. presidential election.Public Domain Winning the Democratic nomination in July 1976, Carter chose the liberal Sen. Walter F. Mondale of Minnesota as his running mate. Carter’s opponent was the unelected incumbent Republican president, Gerald R. Ford, who had come into office in 1974 when Richard Nixon resigned in the wake of Watergate. Many believed that the close race tipped in Carter’s favour after Ford stumbled in a televised debate by saying that eastern Europe was not dominated by the Soviet Union. In November 1976 the Carter-Mondale ticket won the election, capturing 51 percent of the popular vote and garnering 297 electoral votes to Ford’s 240. American presidential election, 1976Results of the American presidential election, 1976. Source: Office of the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Jimmy Carter and Gerald FordJimmy Carter (left) and U.S. Pres. Gerald Ford in the first of three televised debates during the 1976 presidential campaign.AP Images Jimmy Carter Quick Facts View Media Page born October 1, 1924 (age 95) Plains, Georgia title / office presidency of the United States of America, United States (1977-1981) governor, Georgia (1971-1975) political affiliation Democratic Party role in Camp David Accords Selective Service Acts Carter Doctrine Strategic Arms Limitation Talks awards and honors Grammy Award (2006) Nobel Prize (2002) notable family members spouse Rosalynn Carter brother Billy Carter Load Next Page Jimmy Carter Additional Information More About Additional Reading Quotes External Websites The Nobel Prize - Biography of Jimmy Carter Jewish Virtual Library - Biography of Jimmy Carter New Georgia Encyclopedia - Government and Politics - Biography of Jimmy Carter Academy of Achievement - Biography of Jimmy Carter Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Jimmy Carter - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) Jimmy Carter - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!