https://www.britannica.com/biography/Gerald-Ford
Gerald Ford | Biography, Presidency, & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents Gerald Ford president of the United States Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction & Quick Facts Early life From congressman to vice president and president Postpresidential life Gerald Ford president of the United States Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Apr 17, 2020 See Article History Alternative Titles: Gerald Rudolph Ford, Jr., Leslie Lynch King, Jr. Study how Gerald Ford stewarded a post-Watergate United States amid economic inflation and high unemploymentAn overview of Gerald Ford.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article Gerald Ford, in full Gerald Rudolph Ford, Jr., original name Leslie Lynch King, Jr., (born July 14, 1913, Omaha, Nebraska, U.S. —died December 26, 2006, Rancho Mirage, California ), 38th president of the United States (1974–77), who, as 40th vice president, had succeeded to the presidency on the resignation of President Richard Nixon, under the process decreed by the Twenty-fifth Amendment to the Constitution, and thereby became the country’s only chief executive who had not been elected either president or vice president. Gerald Ford: key eventsKey events in the life of Gerald R. Ford.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Top Questions Where was Gerald Ford educated? Gerald Ford graduated from the University of Michigan (1935), where he was a star gridiron-football player. He later earned a law degree from Yale University (1941). What did Gerald Ford accomplish? After becoming U.S. president, Gerald Ford announced a conditional amnesty program for those who had evaded the draft or deserted during the Vietnam War. Controversially, he pardoned former president Richard Nixon on September 8, 1974. What were Gerald Ford’s jobs? Gerald Ford joined the U.S. Navy during World War II and served in the South Pacific, attaining the rank of lieutenant commander. In 1948 he won his first elective office, as Republican congressman from Michigan, and held that position until Richard Nixon named him vice president in 1973. Ford became U.S. president on August 9, 1974. Early life While Gerald Ford was still an infant, his parents were divorced, and his mother moved to Grand Rapids, Michigan, where she married Gerald R. Ford, Sr., who adopted the boy and gave him his name. After graduating from the University of Michigan (1935), where he was a star gridiron-football player, Ford worked as an assistant coach while he earned a law degree from Yale University (1941). He joined the navy during World War II and served in the South Pacific, attaining the rank of lieutenant commander and nearly losing his life in 1944 during a deadly typhoon that killed hundreds. In 1948, the year he won his first elective office, as Republican congressman from Michigan, he married Elizabeth Anne Bloomer (Betty Ford), with whom he had four children—three sons (Michael, John, and Steven) and one daughter (Susan). Gerald Ford: football at the University of MichiganGerald Ford as a member of the University of Michigan's football team, 1933.Courtesy Gerald R. Ford Library Betty FordBetty Ford, 1974.White House photo From congressman to vice president and president Ford served in Congress for 25 years. Well-liked and ideologically flexible, he won the role of House minority leader in 1965 and held this position until Nixon named him vice president in 1973. During his time in Congress, he had developed a reputation for honesty and openness. When Nixon’s vice president, Spiro T. Agnew, was forced to resign from office in disgrace, the president had no choice but to nominate the only Republican whom the Democratic leadership of Congress would approve, the affable Jerry Ford. Richard M. Nixon and Gerald FordRichard M. Nixon (right) accepting the Republican Party's U.S. presidential nomination in 1968. At left is Gerald Ford, the Republican leader of the House of Representatives.AP Images In 1974, when it became clear that Nixon would face criminal charges for his role in the Watergate scandal and three articles of impeachment had been passed by the House Judiciary Committee, Nixon resigned, effective August 9. On that day, Ford took the oath of office and became president, stating, “Our long national nightmare is over.” He retained the foreign and domestic policy staffs of the Nixon administration, including Secretary of State Henry Kissinger. (See primary source document: First Address to Congress and the Nation. See also Cabinet of President Gerald Ford.) Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Cabinet of President Gerald R. Ford August 9, 1974–January 20, 1977 State Henry A. Kissinger Treasury William Edward Simon Defense James Rodney Schlesinger Donald Henry Rumsfeld (from November 20, 1975) Attorney General William Bart Saxbe Edward Hirsch Levi (from February 7, 1975) Interior Rogers Clark Ballard Morton, Jr. Stanley Knapp Hathaway (from June 13, 1975) Thomas Savig Kleppe (from October 17, 1975) Agriculture Earl Lauer Butz John Albert Knebel (from November 4, 1976) Commerce Frederick Baily Dent Rogers Clark Ballard Morton, Jr. (from May 1, 1975) Elliot Lee Richardson (from February 2, 1976) Labor Peter Joseph Brennan John Thomas Dunlop (from March 18, 1975) Willie Julian Usery, Jr. (from February 10, 1976) Health, Education, and Welfare Caspar Willard Weinberger Forrest David Matthews (from August 8, 1975) Housing and Urban Development James Thomas Lynn Carla Anderson Hills (from March 10, 1975) Transportation Claude Stout Brinegar William Thaddeus Coleman, Jr. (from March 7, 1975) Gerald FordGerald Ford being sworn in as U.S. president, August 9, 1974.Robert L. Knudsen —White House Photo/Courtesy Gerald R. Ford Library Henry A. Kissinger and Gerald FordHenry A. Kissinger (left) with U.S. Pres. Gerald Ford at the White House, Washington, D.C.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (reproduction no. LC-DIG-ds-01510) One of Ford’s early acts as president was the announcement of a conditional amnesty program for those who had evaded the draft or deserted during the Vietnam War. The most attention-getting act of his years in office, and the move that for many destroyed his credibility, followed in the next month. On September 8, 1974, declaring that in the end “it is not the ultimate fate of Richard Nixon that most concerns me” but rather “the immediate future of this great country,” Ford pardoned Nixon “for all offenses against the United States” that he had committed “or may have committed” while in office. The pardon, later alleged to have been the result of blackmail (that if Ford did not pardon him, Nixon would blacken the new president’s reputation by publicly claiming that Ford had promised a pardon in exchange for the presidency), effectively squelched any criminal prosecutions to which Nixon might have been liable. Afterward Ford voluntarily appeared before a subcommittee of the House of Representatives on October 17 to explain his reasoning—the first time a standing president had formally testified before a committee of Congress. In another startling move, Ford annoyed members of his own party by naming Nelson A. Rockefeller, both a party liberal and a representative of the so-called “Eastern establishment,” as his vice president. Gerald Ford, 1974U.S. Pres. Gerald Ford defending the pardon of Richard Nixon at a White House press conference, September 16, 1974.© Archive Photos Ford’s administration attempted to cope with the high rate of inflation, which he inherited from the Nixon administration, by slowing down the economy. The result was a very severe recession in 1974–75, which succeeded in lowering inflation but at the cost of an unemployment rate that rose to nearly 9 percent. Despite his WIN (Whip Inflation Now) program, he could do little to stop the country’s economic problems. Ford’s relations with the Democrat-controlled Congress were perhaps typified by his more than 50 vetoes of legislation by the end of 1976; more than 40 were sustained. Legislative gridlock set in. Gerald Ford in the Oval Office, 1975Gerald Ford at his desk in the Oval Office, Washington, D.C., 1975. Marion S. Trikosko/Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. (digital. id. ppmsca.08467) During the final days of the Vietnam War, in March 1975, Ford ordered an airlift of some 237,000 anticommunist Vietnamese refugees from Da Nang, most of whom were taken to the United States. Two months later, after the seizure by Cambodia of the American cargo ship Mayaguez, Ford declared the event an “act of piracy” and sent the Marines to seize the ship. They succeeded, but the rescue operation to save the 39-member crew resulted in the loss of 41 American lives and the wounding of 50 others. Moreover, U.S. relations with Thailand became strained because the U.S. strike had been launched from a base in Thailand against the wishes of the Thai government. Twice in September 1975, Ford was the target of assassination attempts. In the first instance, Secret Service agents intervened before shots were fired; in the second, the would-be assassin fired one shot at Ford but missed by several feet. In October he initially refused to consider loans to the city of New York, then on the brink of fiscal collapse, and thereby prompted the newspaper headline “Ford to City: Drop Dead.” As the larger implications became clear, he retreated from his earlier position. In a close contest at the Republican convention in August 1976, Ford won his party’s nomination, despite a serious challenge by Ronald Reagan, the former governor of California. That fall Ford became the first incumbent president to agree to public debates with a challenger—Jimmy Carter, the Democratic nominee. Ford ran substantially behind from the beginning of the campaign, owing in large part to negative fallout from the Nixon pardon but also to the general public’s perception of his ineptitude. His decisions in office had often seemed to be those of Kissinger and the others left over from the Nixon administration; sometimes, as those made during the Mayaguez incident, they seemed simply ill-considered. He misspoke on many occasions, notably declaring in a debate with Jimmy Carter, “There is no Soviet domination of Eastern Europe” and “I don’t believe that the Poles consider themselves dominated by the Soviet Union,” which journalist William F. Buckley, Jr., called “the ultimate Polish joke.” Even his physical pratfalls, such as hitting his head while deplaning, were well documented for the public. As journalist John Osborne summarized the situation, Ford was seen as Jimmy Carter and Gerald FordJimmy Carter (left) and U.S. Pres. Gerald Ford in the first of three televised debates during the 1976 presidential campaign.AP Images Elizabeth II and Gerald Ford, 1976Queen Elizabeth II dancing with U.S. Pres. Gerald Ford during a state dinner in honour of the queen and Prince Philip at the White House, July 1976.White House Photograph Courtesy Gerald R. Ford Library a loser, a bumbler, a misfit President who for some reason or other…was prone to slip on airplane ramps, bump his head on helicopter entrances, entangle himself in the leashes of his family dogs, and fall from skis in front of television cameras that showed him asprawl in snow. Ford was defeated in the November 1976 election by a popular vote of 40.8 million to 39.1 million and an electoral vote of 297 to 240. American presidential election, 1976Results of the American presidential election, 1976. Source: Office of the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Gerald Ford Quick Facts View Media Page born July 14, 1913 Omaha, Nebraska died December 26, 2006 (aged 93) Rancho Mirage, California title / office presidency of the United States of America, United States (1974-1977) vice president of the United States of America, United States (1973-1974) House of Representatives, United States (1948-1973) political affiliation Republican Party role in Vietnam War Executive Order 11905 notable family members spouse Betty Ford Load Next Page Gerald Ford Additional Information More About Additional Reading Quotes External Websites USA 4 Kids - Biography of Gerald Ford Spartacus Educational - Biography of Gerald Ford Naval History and Heritage Command - Biography of Gerald R. Ford, Jr. Public Broadcasting Service - American Experience - Biography of Gerald R. Ford The White House - Biography of Gerald R. Ford Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Gerald R. Ford - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) Gerald Ford - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!