https://www.britannica.com/biography/Ronald-Reagan
Ronald Reagan | Biography, Facts, & Accomplishments | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents Ronald Reagan president of United States Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction & Quick Facts Early life and acting career Governorship of California Election of 1980 Presidency First days Domestic policies Foreign affairs Relations with the Soviet Union The Middle East and Central America The Iran-Contra Affair Retirement and declining health Cabinet of President Ronald Reagan Ronald Reagan president of United States Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Apr 17, 2020 See Article History Alternative Title: Ronald Wilson Reagan See how Ronald Reagan combatted communism and the Soviet Union throughout the Cold WarAn overview of Ronald Reagan.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article Ronald Reagan, in full Ronald Wilson Reagan, (born February 6, 1911, Tampico, Illinois, U.S. —died June 5, 2004, Los Angeles, California ), 40th president of the United States (1981–89), noted for his conservative Republicanism, his fervent anticommunism, and his appealing personal style, characterized by a jaunty affability and folksy charm. The only movie actor ever to become president, he had a remarkable skill as an orator that earned him the title “the Great Communicator.” His policies have been credited with contributing to the demise of Soviet communism. Key events in the life of Ronald Reagan.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Top Questions When was Ronald Reagan born? Ronald Reagan was born on February 6, 1911, in Tampico, Illinois. When did Ronald Reagan die? Ronald Reagan died on June 5, 2004, in Los Angeles, California. Where did Ronald Reagan go to school? Ronald Reagan attended Eureka College in Eureka, Illinois, where he played gridiron football and was active in the drama society but earned only passing grades. A popular student, he was elected class president in his senior year. What was Ronald Reagan best known for? Ronald Reagan rose to prominence initially as a film actor, appearing in more than 50 films, notably including Knute Rockne—All American (1940), Kings Row (1942), and The Hasty Heart (1950). Reagan later served as governor of California from 1967 to 1975, before being elected the 40th president of the United States in 1980. How did Ronald Reagan change the world? Ronald Reagan is largely credited with the demise of Soviet communism during the 1980s. As president, he worked to reduce the threat of war between the U.S. and the U.S.S.R., to convince Soviet leaders that cooperation with the U.S. would serve Soviet interests, and to encourage openness and democracy in the U.S.S.R. Early life and acting career Ronald Reagan was the second child of John Edward (“Jack”) Reagan, a struggling shoe salesman, and Nelle Wilson Reagan. Reagan’s nickname, “Dutch,” derived from his father’s habit of referring to his infant son as his “fat little Dutchman.” After several years of moving from town to town—made necessary in part because of Jack Reagan’s alcoholism, which made it difficult for him to hold a job—the family settled in Dixon, Illinois, in 1920. Despite their near poverty and his father’s drinking problem, Reagan later recalled his childhood in Dixon as the happiest period of his life. At Eureka College in Eureka, Illinois, Reagan played gridiron football and was active in the drama society but earned only passing grades. A popular student, he was elected class president in his senior year. Graduating in 1932 with a bachelor’s degree in economics and sociology, he decided to enter radio broadcasting. He landed a job as a sportscaster at station WOC in Davenport, Iowa, by delivering entirely from memory an exciting play-by-play description of a Eureka College football game. Later he moved to station WHO in Des Moines, where, as sportscaster “Dutch Reagan,” he became popular throughout the state for his broadcasts of Chicago Cubs baseball games. Because the station could not afford to send him to Wrigley Field in Chicago, Reagan was forced to improvise a running account of the games based on sketchy details delivered over a teletype machine. Reagan, RonaldRonald Reagan (second from right) with his parents, Jack and Nelle, and his brother, Neil, c. 1915.Courtesy Ronald Reagan Library Reagan, RonaldRonald Reagan in Dixon, Illinois, 1920s.Courtesy Ronald Reagan Library In 1937 Reagan followed the Cubs to their spring training camp in southern California, a trip he undertook partly in order to try his hand at movie acting. After a successful screen test at Warner Brothers, he was soon typecast in a series of mostly B movies as a sincere, wholesome, easygoing “good guy.” (As many observers have noted, the characters that Reagan portrayed in the movies were remarkably like Reagan himself.) During the next 27 years, he appeared in more than 50 films, notably including Knute Rockne—All American (1940), Kings Row (1942), and The Hasty Heart (1950). In 1938, while filming Brother Rat, Reagan became engaged to his costar Jane Wyman, and the couple married in Hollywood two years later. They had a daughter, Maureen, in 1941 and adopted a son, Michael, a few days after his birth in 1945. Their marriage ended in divorce in 1948. Reagan was the first president to have been divorced. Reagan, RonaldRonald Reagan on the Eureka College football team, 1929.Courtesy Ronald Reagan Library Commissioned a cavalry officer at the outbreak of World War II, Reagan was assigned to an army film unit based in Los Angeles, where he spent the rest of the war making training films. Although he never left the country and never saw combat, he and Wyman cooperated with the efforts of Warner Brothers to portray him as a real soldier to the public, and in newsreels and magazine photos he acted out scenes of “going off to war” and “coming home on leave.” After leaving Hollywood, Reagan became known for occasionally telling stories about his past—including stories about his happiness at “coming back from the war”—that were actually based on fictional episodes in movies. Some of Reagan’s detractors pointed to such lapses to suggest that he lacked a basic interest in the truth and that he had trouble distinguishing between reality and fantasy. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Reagan had absorbed the liberal Democratic opinions of his father and became a great admirer of Franklin Roosevelt after his election in 1932. Reagan’s father eventually found work as an administrator in a New Deal office established in the Dixon area, a fact that Reagan continued to appreciate even after his political opinion of Roosevelt had dramatically changed. From 1947 to 1952 Reagan served as president of the union of movie actors, the Screen Actors Guild. He fought against communist infiltration in the guild, crossing picket lines to break the sometimes violent strikes. (Such violence and chaos were abhorrent to Reagan, and, when police and students clashed in Berkeley in May 1969, Reagan, as governor of California, called out the National Guard to restore order.) Much to the disgust of union members, he testified as a friendly witness before the House Un-American Activities Committee and cooperated in the blacklisting of actors, directors, and writers suspected of leftist sympathies. Although Reagan was still a Democrat at the time (he campaigned for Harry Truman in the presidential election of 1948), his political opinions were gradually growing more conservative. After initially supporting Democratic senatorial candidate Helen Douglas in 1950, he switched his allegiance to Republican Richard Nixon midway through the campaign. He supported Republican Dwight Eisenhower in the presidential elections of 1952 and 1956, and in 1960 he delivered 200 speeches in support of Nixon’s campaign for president against Democrat John F. Kennedy. He officially changed his party affiliation to Republican in 1962. Reagan met Nancy Davis (Nancy Reagan), a relatively unknown actress, at a dinner party in 1949, and the two were married in a simple ceremony in 1952, at which actor William Holden was best man. The Reagans appeared together in the war movie Hell Cats of the Navy in 1957. Nancy Reagan’s conservative political views encouraged her husband’s drift to the right. Reagan, Ronald; Reagan, NancyRonald Reagan visiting Nancy Reagan on the movie set of Donovan's Brain, 1953.Courtesy Ronald Reagan Library After his acting career began to decline in the 1950s, Reagan became the host of a television drama series, General Electric Theater, as well as spokesman for the General Electric Company. In the latter capacity he toured GE plants around the country, delivering inspirational speeches with a generally conservative, pro-business message. Eventually, however, his speeches became too controversial for the company’s taste, and he was fired as both spokesman and television host in 1962. Reagan, RonaldRonald Reagan on the television series General Electric Theater, c. 1954–62.Courtesy Ronald Reagan Library Ronald Reagan Quick Facts View Media Page born February 6, 1911 Tampico, Illinois died June 5, 2004 (aged 93) Los Angeles, California title / office presidency of the United States of America, United States (1981-1989) governor, California (1967-1975) political affiliation Republican Party role in United States presidential election of 1956 United States presidential election of 1960 Cold War Korean Air Lines flight 007 United States presidential election of 1952 United States presidential election of 1964 Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty Iran-Contra Affair Economic Recovery Tax Act West Berlin discothèque bombing notable family members spouse Jane Wyman spouse Nancy Reagan daughter Maureen Reagan related facts and data Judy Garland - Facts Malcolm McDowell - Facts Nicolas Cage - Facts did you know? The second time he was elected president Reagan won 525 of the 538 electoral votes, which is the largest number ever won by a candidate. Ronald Reagan submitted the first request for a trillion-dollar budget during his presidency, in 1987. Ronald Reagan was nicknamed "The Great Communicator". Ronald Reagan gave his first policy speech regarding AIDS in 1987 after the death of a friend from HIV/AIDS, about 7 years and 20,000 deaths into the AIDS crisis. Load Next Page Ronald Reagan Additional Information More About Additional Reading Quotes External Websites Spartacus Educational - Biography of Ronald Reagan The White House - Biography of Ronald Reagan USA 4 Kids - Biography of Ronald Regan Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Ronald Reagan - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) Ronald Reagan - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!