https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1984
United States presidential election of 1984 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1984 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction The campaign Results of the 1984 election United States presidential election of 1984 United States government Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History United States presidential election of 1984, American presidential election held on November 6, 1984, in which Republican Ronald Reagan was elected to a second term, defeating Democrat Walter Mondale, a former U.S. vice president. Reagan won 49 states en route to amassing 525 electoral votes to Mondale’s 13—one of the biggest landslides in U.S. election history. The election was also notable for being the first time a major party had a woman on its ticket—Geraldine Ferraro, Mondale’s running mate. American presidential election, 1984Results of the American presidential election, 1984 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes Ronald W. Reagan Republican 525 54,455,075 Walter F. Mondale Democratic 13 37,577,185 David Bergland Libertarian 227,204 Lyndon H. LaRouche, Jr. Independent 78,773 Sonia Johnson Citizens 71,976 Bob Richards Populist 66,241 Dennis L. Serrette Independent Alliance 46,809 Gus Hall Communist 36,225 Mel Mason Socialist Workers 24,681 Larry Holmes Workers World 15,327 Delmar Dennis American 13,149 Ed Winn Workers League 10,798 Source: Federal Election Commission.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The campaign During the primaries, Reagan faced no opposition and was easily renominated by the Republican Party. On the Democratic side, however, the 1984 campaign was notable. Jesse Jackson, an eloquent African American preacher who had been a young activist in the civil rights movement in the 1960s, announced his candidacy for the Democratic presidential nomination in 1983. At the time, no one believed he would win either nomination or election, but his public stature guaranteed him equal opportunity to compete seriously for the nomination. The Democratic primaries were contested—in addition to Jackson—by one former governor (Reubin Askew of Florida), two former senators (George McGovern of South Dakota and Mondale), and four incumbent senators (Alan Cranston of California, John Glenn of Ohio, Gary Hart of Colorado, and Ernest Hollings of South Carolina). The pre-primary odds makers had favoured Mondale, with Glenn considered the strongest challenger, but Glenn ran a lacklustre campaign and foundered early. So did most of the others, but Hart came in second in the Iowa caucuses and won the New Hampshire primary. Quick to spot what seemed to be a trend, the media all but wrote off Mondale. No longer the front-runner, Mondale abandoned his defensive stance. Borrowing a slogan from a television commercial for the hamburger chain Wendy’s ("Where’s the beef?"), he found a way to deflate Hart’s pretensions as the candidate of "new ideas" and finally slogged his way to the nomination. Mondale made history by choosing as his running mate Geraldine Ferraro—the first woman selected by a major political party for its presidential ticket. At the time, Ferraro was a three-term congresswoman from New York, and it was hoped that her nomination would galvanize the campaign. It did initially, but the Democratic ticket was derailed almost immediately by a monthlong controversy over the finances of Ferraro and her husband, a New York real estate operator. The Mondale-Ferraro ticket attempted, without success, to find an issue that would resonate with voters. Fairness between rich and poor, alleged misbehaviour by Reagan aides, and Reagan’s close ties with aggressive fundamentalist groups all failed to dent the approval ratings of the man supporters called "the great communicator" and enemies called "the Teflon president" because no charges ever stuck to him. Perhaps worst for the Mondale campaign, however, was Mondale’s pledge at the Democratic convention in San Francisco, where he stated: Geraldine Ferraro, 1984.© 1984 Dennis Brack/Black Star Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today By the end of my first term, I will reduce the Reagan budget deficit by two-thirds. Let’s tell the truth. It must be done, it must be done. Mr. Reagan will raise taxes, and so will I. He won’t tell you. I just did. This pledge to raise taxes backfired, giving Reagan and the Republicans ammunition in their desire to paint the Democratic ticket as “tax-and-spend liberals.” A brief upward blip in Mondale’s fortunes came when, in the first of two nationally televised debates, Reagan appeared tired and confused. His inept performance brought into the open the hitherto unmentioned issue of Reagan’s age (73), and for a brief interval the Democrats took heart. By the second debate, however, the president was back in command. Mondale needed a major Reagan mistake, and it did not come. Indeed, at that second debate, on October 28, Reagan was asked about being the oldest president in U.S. history and whether there was any doubt he could do the job. Reagan disarmingly responded, saying: I want you to know that also I will not make age an issue of this campaign. I am not going to exploit for political purposes my opponent’s youth and inexperience. Laughter—including from Mondale—ensued. With that statement, age became a nonissue, and Democrats saw little hope of stopping the Reagan juggernaut. Apart from the debates, the president appeared only in controlled and euphoric settings, insulated from the press. His campaign capitalized on the new mood of national pride and self-congratulation that had reached a peak in the Los Angeles Olympic Games. The economic recovery helped, but interviewers and exit pollers found a preference for Reagan even among voters who disagreed with administration policies, because for them he represented leadership, patriotism, and optimism. Reagan won virtually every demographic group except African Americans. His margin of victory over Mondale was nearly 17 million popular votes, the second largest in history; it was surpassed only by Richard Nixon’s margin over McGovern in 1972. His electoral landslide of 525–13 was second only to Franklin Roosevelt’s 523–8 margin over Alf Landon in 1936. Mondale carried only the District of Columbia (three electoral votes) by a convincing margin. He won his home state of Minnesota by a scant 3,800 votes (less than 0.2 percent). Ronald ReaganRonald Reagan, 1983.U.S. Department of Defense For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1980. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1988. Results of the 1984 election The results of the 1984 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1984 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes Source: Federal Election Commission. Ronald W. Reagan Republican 525 54,455,075 Walter F. Mondale Democratic 13 37,577,185 David Bergland Libertarian 227,204 Lyndon H. LaRouche, Jr. Independent 78,773 Sonia Johnson Citizens 71,976 Bob Richards Populist 66,241 Dennis L. Serrette Independent Alliance 46,809 Gus Hall Communist 36,225 Mel Mason Socialist Workers 24,681 Larry Holmes Workers World 15,327 Delmar Dennis American 13,149 Ed Winn Workers League 10,798 This article was most recently revised and updated by Amy Tikkanen, Corrections Manager. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: The Ronald Reagan administration Reagan benefited in the election of 1984 from a high degree of personal popularity, from the reduction in inflation, and from the beginnings of economic recovery. This combination proved too much for the Democratic nominee, former vice president Walter Mondale of Minnesota, and his running mate, Congresswoman Geraldine Ferraro… Ronald Reagan: The Iran-Contra Affair At the time of the presidential election of 1984, Reagan was at the height of his popularity. Using slogans such as “It’s morning in America” and “America is back,” his reelection campaign emphasized the country’s economic prosperity and its renewed leadership role in world affairs. On election day Reagan and… George H.W. Bush: Vice presidency …loyalty, and the two were reelected in 1984 for a second term in an even greater landslide.… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1984 Quick Facts date November 6, 1984 participants George H.W. Bush Geraldine Ferraro Walter Mondale Ronald Reagan Gus Hall related topics Communist Party of the United States of America Democratic Party Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1984 Additional Information More About External Websites Maps of World - U.S. Presidential Election 1984 History Central - Presidential Election of 1984 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!