https://www.britannica.com/biography/Walter-Mondale
Walter Mondale | Biography & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Walter Mondale vice president of United States Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Walter Mondale vice president of United States Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Alternative Title: Walter Frederick Mondale Walter Mondale, in full Walter Frederick Mondale, (born January 5, 1928, Ceylon, Minnesota, U.S.), 42nd vice president of the United States (1977–81) in the administration of President Jimmy Carter and Democratic candidate for president in 1984. Mondale was the son of Theodore Sigvaard Mondale, a Methodist minister, and Claribel Cowan. He was an early activist in Minnesota’s Democratic–Farmer-Labor Party and worked on the U.S. Senate campaign of Hubert H. Humphrey in 1948. Graduating from the University of Minnesota law school in 1956, Mondale served as state attorney general from 1960 until his appointment in 1964 to fill Humphrey’s unexpired Senate term when Humphrey won election as vice president under Lyndon B. Johnson. Walter Mondale.© Alon Reininger/Contact Press Images/PNI At the Democratic National Convention in 1964, when two delegations from Mississippi—one composed of civil rights activists from the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party (MFDP), representing African Americans who were barred from participation in Mississippi’s primaries—sought recognition as the official delegation from that state, Mondale served as the chair of an ad hoc committee charged with responsibility for settling the crisis. He proposed a compromise, which was accepted by the convention but rejected by the MFDP, providing official seating to the white delegation, two at-large delegates for the civil rights group, and a promise that the rules governing Mississippi’s primary process would be changed. Mondale, a “flexible liberal,” won election to the Senate in 1966 and reelection in 1972. He served on the Senate Finance and Budget committees and the Committee on Labor and Public Welfare. Elected vice president as Carter’s running mate in 1976, he was a key participant in the negotiations between Egyptian President Anwar el-Sādāt and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin that resulted in the Camp David Accords. The Carter-Mondale ticket was defeated for reelection in 1980 by Ronald Reagan and George Bush. Mondale captured the Democratic presidential nomination in 1984 and chose Geraldine A. Ferraro as his running mate, the first woman vice presidential candidate for a major party. They lost the election overwhelmingly to Reagan-Bush. Mondale, Walter F.: campaign button, 1984Button from Walter Mondale's 1984 presidential campaign, also showing his running mate, Geraldine Ferraro, the first woman vice presidential candidate in U.S. history.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. American presidential election, 1984Results of the American presidential election, 1984Source: Federal Election Commission.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Afterward Mondale practiced law until he was appointed ambassador to Japan (1993–96) by President Bill Clinton. In 2002 Paul Wellstone, the Democratic senator from Minnesota, was killed in a plane crash while campaigning to retain his seat, and the Democratic Party nominated Mondale to take Wellstone’s place on the ballot. Mondale accepted the nomination but was narrowly defeated by Republican Norm Coleman. A memoir by Mondale, The Good Fight: A Life in Liberal Politics, was published in 2010. The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica This article was most recently revised and updated by Amy Tikkanen, Corrections Manager. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: The Ronald Reagan administration …Democratic nominee, former vice president Walter Mondale of Minnesota, and his running mate, Congresswoman Geraldine Ferraro of New York, the first female vice presidential candidate ever to be named by a major party.… Minnesota: Constitutional framework Humphrey and Walter Mondale, each of whom was also the Democratic Party’s candidate for president (in 1968 and 1984, respectively); Sen. Eugene J. McCarthy, who ran for the presidency four times between 1968 and 1992; and Sen. Paul Wellstone, a liberal champion of the disadvantaged in the… Minnesota: Adaptation and growth McCarthy, and Walter F. Mondale, all of whom went on to serve in the U.S. Senate.… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Walter Mondale Quick Facts View Media Page born January 5, 1928 (age 92) Ceylon, Minnesota title / office vice president of the United States of America, United States (1977-1981) United States Senate, United States (1964-1976) political affiliation Democratic Party notable family members spouse Joan Mondale Walter Mondale Additional Information More About External Websites Congress - Biography of Mondale, Walter Frederick Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Walter Mondale - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!