https://www.britannica.com/biography/George-H-W-Bush
George H.W. Bush | Biography & Presidency | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents George H.W. Bush president of United States Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction & Quick Facts Early life and career Vice presidency Presidency Retirement Cabinet of Pres. George H.W. Bush George H.W. Bush president of United States Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Apr 17, 2020 See Article History Alternative Title: George Herbert Walker Bush Study the end of the Cold War and start of the Persian Gulf War under George H.W. Bush's administrationAn overview of George H. W. Bush.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article George H.W. Bush, in full George Herbert Walker Bush, (born June 12, 1924, Milton, Massachusetts, U.S. —died November 30, 2018, Houston, Texas ), politician and businessman who was vice president of the United States (1981–89) and the 41st president of the United States (1989–93). As president, Bush assembled a multinational force to compel the withdrawal of Iraq from Kuwait in the Persian Gulf War. Key events in the life of George Bush.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Early life and career Bush was the son of Prescott Sheldon Bush, an investment banker and U.S. senator from Connecticut, and Dorothy Walker Bush, scion of a prominent St. Louis, Missouri, family. (Her father established the amateur golf competition known as the Walker Cup.) The young Bush grew up in Greenwich, Connecticut, and attended private schools there and in Andover, Massachusetts. Upon graduation from Phillips Academy, Andover, he joined the U.S. Naval Reserve. He served from 1942 to 1944 as a torpedo bomber pilot on aircraft carriers in the Pacific during World War II, flying some 58 combat missions; he was shot down by the Japanese in 1944. For his service he won the Distinguished Flying Cross. In January 1945 he married Barbara Pierce (Barbara Bush). Prescott S. Bush and familyPrescott S. Bush (sitting, centre) and three generations of his family, including son George H.W. Bush (top left), grandson George W. Bush (far left), and grandson Jeb Bush (fifth from left, standing, in shorts).George H. W. Bush Presidential Library and Museum George Bush serving as a navy pilot during World War II.White House photo Following the family tradition, Bush attended Yale University, graduating in 1948. His membership in the Skull and Bones secret society there later became an issue that his critics used as evidence of elitism. Rejecting a position in his father’s firm, he moved with his young family to Texas and became a salesman of oil field supplies. He cofounded the Bush-Overbey Oil Development Company (1951), the Zapata Petroleum Corporation (1953), and the Zapata Off-Shore Company (1954). Bush, GeorgeGeorge Bush.Dave Valdez/White House photo In 1959 he became active in the Republican Party in Houston. After losing a campaign for the U.S. Senate to Democrat Ralph Yarborough in 1964, Bush was elected in 1966 to a safely Republican seat in the U.S. House of Representatives. He gave up the seat in 1970 to run again for the Senate. He was defeated again, this time by Democrat Lloyd Bentsen, Jr. Shortly after his defeat, Bush was appointed by Pres. Richard M. Nixon to serve as U.S. ambassador to the United Nations (UN; 1971–72). In 1973, as the Watergate Scandal was erupting, Bush became chairman of the Republican National Committee. In this post, he stood by Nixon until August 1974, when he joined a growing chorus of voices calling on the president to resign. Bush, George: family, 1964The Bush family in 1964 in Houston, Texas. Parents George and Barbara Bush are shown sitting on the loveseat, their sons George W. Bush perching on the arm and Jeb Bush standing centre.National Archives, Washington, D.C. Bush, George; Bush, BarbaraGeorge and Barbara Bush in Houston, Texas, on the night that he was elected to Congress in November 1966. National Archives, Washington, D.C. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Later in 1974, Pres. Gerald R. Ford, who had nominated Nelson Rockefeller as his vice president, named a disappointed Bush chief of the U.S. Liaison Office in Beijing—which was then the senior U.S. representative in China, because relations between the two countries did not permit the exchange of ambassadors. He served in this capacity until he was asked to head the Central Intelligence Agency in 1976. As CIA director, Bush took steps to ensure that the agency’s activities did not exceed congressional authorization. When Jimmy Carter took office in 1977, Bush resigned and returned to Texas, where in 1979 he announced his candidacy for president. Bush, George U.S. Central Intelligence Agency director-designate George Bush meeting with Pres. Gerald Ford in the Oval Office, 1975.David Hume Kennerly—Official White House Photo/Gerald R. Ford Library Vice presidency After declaring that his opponent, the more popular and conservative Ronald W. Reagan, would have to practice “voodoo economics” in order to increase federal revenue by lowering taxes, Bush abandoned his campaign for the Republican Party’s presidential nomination in May 1980 and threw his support behind Reagan, who then chose Bush as his running mate. The Reagan-Bush ticket defeated the Democratic ticket of Jimmy Carter and Walter Mondale by a wide margin in the 1980 presidential election. Bush won Reagan’s loyalty, and the two were reelected in 1984 for a second term in an even greater landslide. Ronald Reagan (left) and George Bush in the White House.David Valdez/The White House As vice president, Bush traveled more than one million miles as the administration’s representative. When asked about his involvement in the Iran-Contra Affair—in which the Reagan administration, in violation of a law passed by Congress in 1984, used funds from the illegal sale of arms to Iran to fund Contra rebels fighting the Marxist government of Nicaragua—Bush claimed that he was “out of the loop,” though he did admit knowing about the arms sale to Iran. In 1987 he published an autobiography, Looking Forward (written with Victor Gold). Reagan, Ronald; Bush, GeorgeU.S. Pres. Ronald Reagan (left) and Vice Pres. George Bush waving at the 1984 Republican National Convention in Dallas, Texas.National Archives, Washington, D.C. inaugural address: George Bush delivering his inaugural address, Jan. 20, 1989U.S. Pres. George Bush delivering his inaugural address, Washington, D.C., Jan. 20, 1989.Courtesy of the George Bush Presidential Library and MuseumSee all videos for this article An early and leading candidate for the Republican Party’s nomination for the presidency in 1988, he secured the nomination and, together with his running mate, Dan Quayle, defeated the Democratic candidate, Michael Dukakis, in the general election, winning 53 percent of the popular vote to Dukakis’s 46 percent. Although Bush had called for “a kinder, and gentler, nation” in his speech accepting the nomination, his campaign was negative, at one point criticizing Dukakis with a phrase—“card-carrying member of the American Civil Liberties Union”—reminiscent of that used by Sen. Joseph McCarthy during the Red Scare of the early 1950s. Bush also won supporters with his pledge to continue the Reagan economic program, repeatedly stating: “Read my lips, no new taxes!” Bush, George: Campaign buttonButton from George Bush's 1988 presidential campaignEncyclopædia Britannica, Inc. George H.W. Bush Quick Facts View Media Page born June 12, 1924 Milton, Massachusetts died November 30, 2018 (aged 94) Houston, Texas title / office presidency of the United States of America, United States (1989-1993) vice president of the United States of America, United States (1981-1989) House of Representatives, United States (1967-1971) political affiliation Republican Party role in Strategic Arms Reduction Talks Persian Gulf War Somalia intervention founder of Zapata Off-Shore Company notable family members spouse Barbara Bush father Prescott S. Bush son Jeb Bush son George W. Bush Load Next Page George H.W. Bush Additional Information More About Additional Reading Quotes External Websites The White House - Biography of George H. W. Bush Jewish Virtual Library - Biography of George Herbert Walker Bush History Central - Biography of George Bush Academy of Achievement - Biography of George H. W. Bush The White House - Biography of George W. Bush Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. George H.W. Bush - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) George H.W. Bush - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!