https://www.britannica.com/biography/Michael-Dukakis
Michael Dukakis | American politician | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Michael Dukakis American politician Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Michael Dukakis American politician Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Alternative Title: Michael Stanley Dukakis Michael Dukakis, in full Michael Stanley Dukakis, (born November 3, 1933, Brookline, Massachusetts, U.S.), American politician and lawyer, who was the Democratic Party’s nominee for president in 1988. The son of Greek immigrants, Michael Dukakis graduated from Swarthmore College in 1955. After serving in the U.S. Army in South Korea, he attended Harvard Law School, earning his law degree in 1960. He subsequently became active in Massachusetts Democratic politics and served eight years (1962–70) in the state’s House of Representatives. He lost a bid for the Massachusetts lieutenant governorship in 1970 but in 1974 won election to the governorship, in which post he coped with a serious budgetary crisis and restored the state’s fiscal health. He lost his bid for reelection in 1978 but was again elected governor of Massachusetts in 1982. During his second term as governor he coordinated the government’s policies so as to greatly strengthen the state’s economic base, saving old industries and encouraging the growth of new ones. He was overwhelmingly reelected in 1986. Partly as a result of his efforts, Massachusetts for a brief time had one of the nation’s healthiest state economies. In April 1987 Dukakis declared his candidacy for the presidency. He emerged as the most popular candidate in the 1988 Democratic primaries and won his party’s nomination for president. Dukakis lost the November 1988 presidential election to the Republican candidate, George Bush. He later announced that he would leave office at the expiration of his term as governor in January 1991. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today This article was most recently revised and updated by André Munro, Assistant Editor. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: The Ronald Reagan administration …Texas defeated the Democratic nominee, Michael Dukakis, the governor of Massachusetts.… Democratic Party: From Watergate to a new millennium George Bush, defeated Massachusetts Governor Michael S. Dukakis in 1988. Despite its losses in the presidential elections of the 1970s and ’80s, the Democratic Party continued to control both houses of Congress for most of the period (although the Republicans controlled the Senate from 1981 to 1987).… George H.W. Bush: Vice presidency …Quayle, defeated the Democratic candidate, Michael Dukakis, in the general election, winning 53 percent of the popular vote to Dukakis’s 46 percent. Although Bush had called for “a kinder, and gentler, nation” in his speech accepting the nomination, his campaign was negative, at one point criticizing Dukakis with a phrase—“card-carrying… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Michael Dukakis Quick Facts View Media Page born November 3, 1933 (age 86) Brookline, Massachusetts political affiliation Democratic Party Michael Dukakis Additional Information More About External Websites UCLA - Luskin School of Public Affairs - Biography of Michael Dukakis American College of Thessaloniki - Biography of Michael S. Dukakis Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Michael Dukakis - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!