https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1992
United States presidential election of 1992 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1992 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction The campaign Results of the 1992 election United States presidential election of 1992 United States government Written By: Michael Levy See Article History United States presidential election of 1992, American presidential election held on Nov. 3, 1992, in which Democrat Bill Clinton defeated incumbent Republican Pres. George Bush. Independent candidate Ross Perot secured nearly 19 percent of the vote—the highest percentage of any third-party candidate in a U.S. presidential election in 80 years. American presidential election, 1992Results of the American presidential election, 1992 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes Bill Clinton Democratic 370 44,909,889 George Bush Republican 168 39,104,545 Ross Perot Independent 19,742,267 Andre V. Marrou Libertarian 291,628 James “Bo” Gritz Populist 107,002 Lenora B. Fulani New Alliance 73,708 Howard Phillips U.S. Taxpayers 43,398 John Hagelin Natural Law 39,163 Ron Daniels Peace and Freedom 27,969 Lyndon H. LaRouche, Jr. Economic Recovery 26,334 James Mac Warren Socialist Workers 23,091 Source: Federal Election Commission.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The campaign Typically, incumbent presidents face little opposition in securing renomination, but Bush faced a stiff early challenge from conservative commentator Pat Buchanan. At the Republican National Convention in 1988, Bush had pledged to the delegates that he would resist any tax increases, giving his famous “read my lips” pledge. But in 1990, in an attempt to cope with a soaring budget deficit, Bush reneged on that pledge, earning him the enmity of his conservative supporters and the distrust of many voters who had backed him in 1988. Buchanan led an insurgent campaign against Bush, capturing nearly 37 percent of the vote in the New Hampshire primary. Despite the challenge, Bush went on to win the Republican nomination, though his candidacy was wounded. George Bush.© Dennis Brack—Black Star/PNI Patrick Buchanan.AP/REX/Shutterstock.com The Democratic race was intense. With Iowa Sen. Tom Harkin running, the major Democratic candidates skipped the Iowa caucuses. The front-runner appeared to be Clinton, but other candidates, in particular former California governor Jerry Brown and former Massachusetts senator Paul Tsongas, hoped to secure the nomination. Just before the New Hampshire primary, Clinton’s campaign was nearly derailed by widespread press coverage of his alleged 12-year affair with an Arkansas woman, Gennifer Flowers. In a subsequent interview watched by millions of viewers on the television news program 60 Minutes, Clinton and his wife admitted to having marital problems. Clinton’s popularity soon rebounded, and, though Tsongas won in New Hampshire, Clinton scored a strong second-place showing—a performance for which he labeled himself the “Comeback Kid.” Clinton would nearly sweep the Southern primaries held on March 10—the so-called Super Tuesday—and by mid-March Tsongas would withdraw from the contest. Still, Brown continued to challenge Clinton, who had not amassed the requisite number of delegates to secure the Democratic nomination until June 2, when he defeated Brown in California and several other states. With Clinton suffering from personal scandals and facing a tough primary race and with Bush weakened by a faltering economy, the conditions were ripe for a third-party bid. In February, while a guest on CNN’s Larry King Live, billionaire businessman Ross Perot announced that he would run for president if supporters would file petitions enabling him to be on the ballot in all 50 states. Perot initially earned widespread popularity, particularly among voters dissatisfied with traditional party politics. He reached out to both Democrats and Republicans, hiring former operatives from each party to advise his campaign. Polls in May and June showed Perot leading both Clinton and Bush, but in July, with Clinton’s support increasing on the eve of the Democratic National Convention, Perot unexpectedly dropped from the race. Ross PerotRoss Perot at the second U.S. presidential debate of 1992.© Archive Photos/Consolidated News Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Clinton chose as his running mate Tennessee Sen. Al Gore—a curious choice, as both hailed from the South. But, with Gore’s centrist credentials added to those of Clinton’s, the move was politically astute, inoculating the Democrats against charges of being tax-and-spend liberals and, in particular, weak on defense (Gore had been one of only 10 Democratic senators to authorize the use of force against Iraq in 1991 in the Persian Gulf War). The campaign seemed likely to be a battle between the Clinton-Gore team and that of Bush and his vice president, Dan Quayle, and Clinton-Gore maintained a sizeable lead over the incumbent ticket. In September, however, Perot returned to the campaign trail and selected former admiral James Stockdale as his vice presidential running mate. Although Perot’s support began low—particularly as many former supporters did not warm to his second candidacy—Perot, spending $65 million of his own money and with his opposition to the North American Free Trade Agreement (supported by both Bush and Clinton), his focus on eliminating the country’s budget deficit and national debt, and his nontraditional campaign, in which he focused on 30-minute infomercial-style advertisements and appeared on the stump to deliver speeches only rarely, saw his support increase as election day neared. Democratic presidential nominee Bill Clinton (right) and his running mate, Al Gore, raising their arms at the end of the Democratic National Convention in New York City, July 16, 1992. Marcy Nighswaner—AP/Shutterstock.com George Bush campaign pin, 1992.Americana/Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Clinton, on the strength of his middle-of-the-road approach, his apparent sympathy for the concerns of ordinary Americans (his statement “I feel your pain” became a well-known phrase), and his personal warmth, ultimately was able to defeat Bush and Perot, winning 43 percent of the vote to Bush’s 37.4 percent and Perot’s 18.9 percent. In the electoral college, Clinton’s victory was more dramatic: he captured 370 electoral votes to Bush’s 168, thus ending 12 years of Republican control of the presidency. For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1988. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 1996.Michael Levy Results of the 1992 election The results of the 1992 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1992 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes Source: Federal Election Commission. Bill Clinton Democratic 370 44,909,889 George Bush Republican 168 39,104,545 Ross Perot Independent 19,742,267 Andre V. Marrou Libertarian 291,628 James (“Bo”) Gritz Populist 107,002 Lenora B. Fulani New Alliance 73,708 Howard Phillips U.S. Taxpayers 43,398 John Hagelin Natural Law 39,163 Ron Daniels Peace and Freedom 27,969 Lyndon H. LaRouche, Jr. Economic Recovery 26,334 James ("Mac") Warren Socialist Workers 23,091 Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: The George Bush administration In the 1992 presidential election, Democrat Bill Clinton, the governor of Arkansas, defeated Bush in a race in which independent candidate Ross Perot won 19 percent of the popular vote—more than any third candidate had received since Theodore Roosevelt in 1912.… George H.W. Bush: Presidency Bush ran a lacklustre campaign for reelection in 1992. He faced a fierce early challenge from Patrick Buchanan in the Republican primary and then lost votes in the general election to third-party candidate Ross Perot. Meanwhile, Bush’s Democratic opponent, Bill Clinton of Arkansas, hammered away at the issue of… Iowa caucuses: History of the Iowa caucuses The 1992 presidential race in Iowa was rendered all but irrelevant, with the incumbent Bush seeking reelection on the Republican side and the candidacy of popular native son Senator Tom Harkin (Iowa) skewing votes on the Democratic side. But in 1996 the caucuses were back in… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1992 Quick Facts date November 3, 1992 participants George H.W. Bush Bill Clinton Al Gore Ross Perot Dan Quayle James Bond Stockdale key people Chris Christie related topics Democratic Party Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1992 Additional Information More About External Websites The New York Times - The 1992 Elections: President -- The Overview; Clinton Captures Presidency with Huge Electoral Margin; Wins a Democratic Congress Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!