https://www.britannica.com/biography/Bill-Clinton
Bill Clinton | Biography, Presidency, Accomplishments, & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents Bill Clinton president of United States Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction & Quick Facts Early life Governor of Arkansas Presidency Life after the presidency Cabinet of Pres. Bill Clinton Bill Clinton president of United States Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Apr 17, 2020 See Article History Alternative Titles: William J. Clinton, William Jefferson Blythe III, William Jefferson Clinton See how Bill Clinton passed the North American Free Trade Agreement and faced impeachmentAn overview of Bill Clinton. Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article Bill Clinton, byname of William Jefferson Clinton, original name William Jefferson Blythe III, (born August 19, 1946, Hope, Arkansas, U.S. ), 42nd president of the United States (1993–2001), who oversaw the country’s longest peacetime economic expansion. In 1998 he became the second U.S. president to be impeached; he was acquitted by the Senate in 1999. Key events in the life of Bill Clinton.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Top Questions Why is Bill Clinton important? Bill Clinton was the 42nd president of the United States (1993–2001). He oversaw the country’s longest peacetime economic expansion. In 1998 Clinton became the second U.S. president to be impeached; he was acquitted by the Senate in 1999. What was Bill Clinton’s childhood like? Bill Clinton’s father was a traveling salesman who died before his son was born. His widow, Virginia Dell Blythe, married Roger Clinton, and her son eventually took his stepfather’s name. Bill Clinton developed political aspirations at an early age; they were solidified (by his own account) in 1963, when he met Pres. John F. Kennedy. What is Bill Clinton’s family like? Bill Clinton is married to Hillary Clinton, who served as a U.S. senator (2001–09) and as secretary of state (2009–13) in the administration of Pres. Barack Obama and was the first woman presidential nominee of a major party in the United States. They have one daughter, Chelsea, and three grandchildren. What is Bill Clinton’s occupation? Bill Clinton taught at the University of Arkansas School of Law. He served as attorney general and then governor of Arkansas, and he became the U.S. president in 1993. After his presidency, Clinton remained active in politics and was a popular speaker on the lecture circuit. He is the board chair of the Clinton Foundation. Where was Bill Clinton educated? Bill Clinton enrolled at Georgetown University in Washington, D.C., in 1964 and graduated in 1968 with a degree in international affairs. That year he went to the University of Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar, and he graduated from Yale University Law School in 1973. Early life Bill Clinton’s father was a traveling salesman who died in an automobile accident three months before his son was born. His widow, Virginia Dell Blythe, married Roger Clinton, and, despite their unstable union (they divorced and then remarried) and her husband’s alcoholism, her son eventually took his stepfather’s name. Reared in part by his maternal grandmother, Bill Clinton developed political aspirations at an early age; they were solidified (by his own account) in July 1963, when he met and shook hands with Pres. John F. Kennedy. Clinton, BillBill Clinton as a young boy.Clinton Family Photographs, Courtesy, William J. Clinton Presidential Library Clinton enrolled at Georgetown University in Washington, D.C., in 1964 and graduated in 1968 with a degree in international affairs. During his freshman and sophomore years he was elected student president, and during his junior and senior years he worked as an intern for Sen. J. William Fulbright, the Arkansas Democrat who chaired the U.S. Senate Committee on Foreign Relations. Fulbright was a vocal critic of the Vietnam War, and Clinton, like many young men of his generation, opposed the war as well. He received a draft deferment for the first year of his studies as a Rhodes Scholar at the University of Oxford in 1968 and later attempted to extend the deferment by applying to the Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (ROTC) program at the University of Arkansas School of Law. Although he soon changed his plans and returned to Oxford, thus making himself eligible for the draft, he was not chosen. While at Oxford, Clinton wrote a letter to the director of the Arkansas ROTC program thanking the director for “saving” him from the draft and explaining his concern that his opposition to the war could ruin his future “political viability.” During this period Clinton also experimented with marijuana; his later claim that he “didn’t inhale” would become the subject of much ridicule. After graduating from Yale University Law School in 1973, Clinton joined the faculty of the University of Arkansas School of Law, where he taught until 1976. In 1974 he ran unsuccessfully for a seat in the U.S. House of Representatives. In 1975 he married a fellow Yale Law graduate, attorney Hillary Rodham (Hillary Clinton), who thereafter took an active role in his political career. In the following year he was elected attorney general of Arkansas, and in 1978 he won the governorship, becoming the youngest governor the country had seen in 40 years. Bill and Hillary Clinton's wedding dayBill and Hillary Clinton on their wedding day, October 11, 1975.Clinton Family Photographs, Courtesy, William J. Clinton Presidential Library Clinton, BillBill Clinton campaigning for a seat in the U.S. House of Representatives, 1974.Clinton Family Photographs, Courtesy, William J. Clinton Presidential Library Clinton, BillBill Clinton being sworn in as governor of Arkansas, January 9, 1979.Clinton Family Photographs, Courtesy, William J. Clinton Presidential Library Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Governor of Arkansas After an eventful two-year term as governor, Clinton failed in his reelection bid in 1980, the year his daughter and only child, Chelsea, was born. After apologizing to voters for unpopular decisions he had made as governor (such as highway-improvement projects funded by increases in the state gasoline tax and automobile licensing fees), he regained the governor’s office in 1982 and was successively reelected three more times by substantial margins. A pragmatic, centrist Democrat, he imposed mandatory competency testing for teachers and students and encouraged investment in the state by granting tax breaks to industries. He became a prominent member of the Democratic Leadership Council, a group that sought to recast the party’s agenda away from its traditional liberalism and move it closer to what it perceived as the centre of American political life. inaugural address: Bill Clinton delivering his first inaugural address, Jan. 20, 1993U.S. Pres. Bill Clinton delivering his first inaugural address, Washington, D.C., Jan. 20, 1993.© William J. Clinton Presidential LibrarySee all videos for this article Clinton declared his candidacy for president while still governor of Arkansas. Just before the New Hampshire presidential primary, his campaign was nearly derailed by widespread press coverage of his alleged 12-year affair with an Arkansas woman, Gennifer Flowers. In a subsequent interview watched by millions of viewers on the television news program 60 Minutes, Clinton and his wife admitted to having marital problems. Clinton’s popularity soon rebounded, and he scored a strong second-place showing in New Hampshire—a performance for which he labeled himself the “Comeback Kid.” On the strength of his middle-of-the-road approach, his apparent sympathy for the concerns of ordinary Americans (his statement “I feel your pain” became a well-known phrase), and his personal warmth, he eventually won the Democratic presidential nomination in 1992. Facing incumbent Pres. George Bush, Clinton and his running mate, Tennessee Sen. Al Gore, argued that 12 years of Republican leadership had led to political and economic stagnation. In November the Clinton-Gore ticket defeated both Bush and independent candidate Ross Perot with 43 percent of the popular vote to 37 percent for Bush and 19 percent for Perot; Clinton defeated Bush in the electoral college by a vote of 370 to 168. Bill Clinton (right) and Al Gore at the Democratic National Convention in New York, July 16, 1992.Marcy Nighswaner—AP/Shutterstock.com Bill Clinton Quick Facts View Media Page born August 19, 1946 (age 73) Hope, Arkansas title / office presidency of the United States of America, United States (1993-2001) governor, Arkansas (1983-1992) governor, Arkansas (1979-1981) attorney general, Arkansas (1977-1979) political affiliation Democratic Party notable works “The President Is Missing” “My Life” role in Strategic Arms Reduction Talks North American Free Trade Agreement Somalia intervention Violence Against Women Act Telecommunications Act Brady Law awards and honors Presidential Medal of Freedom (2013) notable family members spouse Hillary Clinton related facts and data Hillary Clinton - Facts RBG - Facts Load Next Page Bill Clinton Additional Information More About Additional Reading External Websites CALS Encyclopedia of Arkansas - Biography of Bill Clinton National Park Service - Bill Clinton Birthplace Official Site of the William J. Clinton Presidential Library and Museum The White House - Biography of William J. Clinton Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Bill Clinton - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) Bill Clinton - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!