https://www.britannica.com/biography/Ross-Perot
Ross Perot | Biography, 1992 Presidential Election, & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Ross Perot American businessman Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Ross Perot American businessman Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Alternative Title: Henry Ross Perot Ross Perot, in full Henry Ross Perot, (born June 27, 1930, Texarkana, Texas, U.S.—died July 9, 2019, Dallas, Texas), American businessman and philanthropist who ran as an independent candidate for U.S. president in 1992 and 1996. He was the son of a cotton broker. Perot attended Texarkana Junior College for two years before entering the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland, in 1949. He was commissioned in the U.S. Navy in 1953 and served until 1957, after which he worked as a salesman for International Business Machines Corporation (IBM). In 1962 Perot quit IBM and formed his own company, Electronic Data Systems (EDS), to design, install, and operate computer data-processing systems for clients on a contractual basis. EDS grew by processing medical claims for Blue Cross and other large insurance companies, and in 1968 Perot took the firm public in a shrewdly managed share offering whose skyrocketing prices yielded Perot, the majority shareholder, several hundred million dollars. EDS continued to prosper under his leadership, and in 1984 Perot sold the company to General Motors for $2.5 billion worth of special-issue stock and a seat on GM’s board of directors. Perot’s criticism of GM’s management prompted them to buy back his seat for $700 million in 1986. In 1969 Perot mounted an unsuccessful campaign to free American prisoners of war being held in North Vietnam. In 1979 he sponsored efforts to rescue two EDS employees who were being held in prison in Iran. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today In 1992, while a guest on CNN’s Larry King Live, Perot announced that he would enter the 1992 U.S. presidential election as a candidate if supporters would file petitions enabling him to be on the ballot in all 50 states. With Democratic front-runner Bill Clinton suffering from personal scandals and facing a tough primary race from Jerry Brown and with the incumbent Republican president George H.W. Bush weakened by a faltering economy, support for Perot initially earned widespread popularity, particularly among voters dissatisfied with traditional party politics. Perot reached out to both Democrats and Republicans, hiring former operatives from each party to advise his campaign. Polls in May and June showed Perot leading both Clinton and Bush, but in July he unexpectedly dropped from the race. He later returned to the campaign trail, however, and selected James Stockdale as his vice presidential running mate. Perot ran a nontraditional campaign, focusing on 30-minute infomercial-style advertisements and appearing on the stump to deliver speeches only rarely. His policies focused on opposition to the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA; supported by both Bush and Clinton) and on elimination of the country’s budget deficit and national debt. Spending some $65 million of his personal fortune, Perot won 19 percent of the popular vote in the November election. After the election he organized the nonpartisan political pressure group United We Stand America. Ross PerotRoss Perot at the second U.S. presidential debate of 1992.© Archive Photos/Consolidated News American presidential election, 1992Results of the American presidential election, 1992Source: Federal Election Commission.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. In September 1995 Perot established the Reform Party, which he hoped to build into a major political party. The party’s broadly defined platform called for campaign reform, congressional term limits, balancing the federal budget, overhauling the health care and income tax systems, and placing restrictions on lobbying. Running as the Reform Party nominee in the 1996 U.S. presidential election with Pat Choate as his vice presidential nominee, Perot received 8 percent of the popular vote, while the Republican candidate, Bob Dole, took 41 percent, and Clinton was reelected with 49 percent of the vote and 379 electoral college delegates. Following the election, Perot distanced himself from the Reform Party, and, on the eve of the 2000 presidential election, he endorsed Republican George W. Bush over the Reform Party nominee, Pat Buchanan. In 2008 Perot launched a blog, Perot Charts, that focused on fiscal policy. Perot, Ross: campaign buttonButton from Ross Perot's 1996 presidential campaign.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. American presidential election, 1996Results of the American presidential election, 1996Source: Federal Election Commission.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.The Editors of Encyclopaedia BritannicaThis article was most recently revised and updated by Amy Tikkanen, Corrections Manager. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: The George Bush administration …race in which independent candidate Ross Perot won 19 percent of the popular vote—more than any third candidate had received since Theodore Roosevelt in 1912.… Bill Clinton: Governor of Arkansas …both Bush and independent candidate Ross Perot with 43 percent of the popular vote to 37 percent for Bush and 19 percent for Perot; Clinton defeated Bush in the electoral college by a vote of 370 to 168. (See primary source document: First Inaugural Address.)… Steve Jobs: NeXT and Pixar …funding partners included Texan entrepreneur Ross Perot and Canon Inc., a Japanese electronics company. Although the NeXT computer was notable for its engineering design, it was eclipsed by less costly computers from competitors such as Sun Microsystems, Inc. In the early 1990s Jobs focused the company on its innovative software… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Ross Perot Quick Facts View Media Page born June 27, 1930 Texarkana, Texas died July 9, 2019 (aged 89) Dallas, Texas political affiliation Independent founder of Electronic Data Systems Ross Perot Additional Information More About External Websites Famous Texans - Biography of H. Ross Perot Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Ross Perot - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!