https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-1996
United States presidential election of 1996 | History & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 1996 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction The campaign Results of the 1996 election United States presidential election of 1996 United States government Written By: Michael Levy See Article History United States presidential election of 1996, American presidential election held on November 5, 1996, in which Democrat Bill Clinton was elected to a second term, defeating Republican Bob Dole, a former U.S. senator from Kansas. American presidential election, 1996Results of the American presidential election, 1996 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes Bill Clinton Democratic 379 47,402,357 Bob Dole Republican 159 39,198,755 Ross Perot Reform 8,085,402 Ralph Nader Green 685,128 Harry Browne Libertarian 485,798 Howard Phillips U.S. Taxpayers 184,820 John Hagelin Natural Law 113,670 Monica Moorehead Workers World 29,083 Marsha Feinland Peace and Freedom 25,332 Source: Federal Election Commission.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The campaign Clinton had won his first term in 1992 against incumbent Republican George Bush with only 43 percent of the vote, as independent Ross Perot had won nearly 19 percent. Two years into Clinton’s term the Democrats lost their majority in the House of Representatives for the first time since the 1950s, and many pundits believed that Clinton, whose public support had dwindled because of some early missteps—particularly on health care and on his proposal for allowing gay men and lesbians to serve openly in the military (the “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” compromise was eventually secured)—would be a one-term president. However, the Republicans in Congress, led by House speaker Newt Gingrich, often pursued policies in an uncompromising and confrontational manner. In particular, after a budget impasse between the Republicans and Clinton in 1995 and 1996—which forced two partial government shutdowns, including one for 22 days (the longest closure of government operations up to that time, it was surpassed by a 34-day shutdown in 2018–19)—Clinton won considerable public support for his more moderate approach. Clinton, facing little serious opposition, was easily renominated by the Democrats with his vice president, Al Gore. On the Republican side, however, Dole faced a stiff challenge from several contenders, including conservative commentator Pat Buchanan, businessman Steve Forbes, former Tennessee governor and U.S. secretary of education Lamar Alexander, and conservative commentator and former diplomat Alan Keyes. In the first two Republican contests, Dole narrowly defeated Buchanan in the Iowa caucuses (February 12) and Buchanan defeated Dole in New Hampshire’s primary (February 20). Over the next week, Forbes picked up victories in Delaware and Arizona, while Dole notched victories in North Dakota and South Dakota. On the next two biggest primary days, March 5 and March 12, however, Dole swept the contests, and he went on to win every contest throughout the remainder of the primary season, capturing the Republican nomination. In June Dole, who had spent more than three decades in Congress, resigned from the U.S. Senate, where he served as majority leader, to concentrate on his presidential bid. He selected Jack Kemp to be his vice presidential running mate. Bob Dole speaking at the Republican National Convention in San Diego, California, August 1996.AP Dole, Bob: campaign buttonButton from Bob Dole's 1996 presidential campaign.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Perot entered the general election campaign as the candidate for the Reform Party, but he was unable to repeat the success he enjoyed in 1992. Buoyed by a recovering and increasingly strong economy, Clinton maintained consistent double-digit leads in the polls over Dole as election day neared. Ultimately, Clinton defeated Dole, capturing 49 percent to Dole’s 41 percent and Perot’s 8 percent. In the electoral college, Clinton won 379 votes to Dole’s 159; only five states had switched their votes from 1992, with Colorado, Georgia, and Montana moving away from Clinton and Clinton winning Arizona and Florida—becoming the first Democrat since 1948 to win the former and the first since 1976 to win the latter. Clinton, Bill: campaign pinPin from Bill Clinton's 1996 presidential campaign.Americana/Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1992. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 2000. Michael Levy Results of the 1996 election The results of the 1996 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 1996 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes Source: Federal Election Commission. Bill Clinton Democratic 379 47,402,357 Bob Dole Republican 159 39,198,755 Ross Perot Reform 8,085,402 Ralph Nader Green 685,128 Harry Browne Libertarian 485,798 Howard Phillips U.S. Taxpayers 184,820 John Hagelin Natural Law 113,670 Monica Moorehead Workers World 29,083 Marsha Feinland Peace and Freedom 25,332 Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: The Bill Clinton administration …Clinton was easily reelected in 1996, capturing 49 percent of the popular vote to 41 percent for Republican challenger Bob Dole and 8 percent for Perot. In the electoral college Clinton won 379 votes to Dole’s 159.… Iowa caucuses: History of the Iowa caucuses But in 1996 the caucuses were back in the limelight, with Dole once again besting a tough field of Republican opponents and setting his feet to the path to the nomination.… Ross Perot …Reform Party nominee in the 1996 U.S. presidential election with Pat Choate as his vice presidential nominee, Perot received 8 percent of the popular vote, while the Republican candidate, Bob Dole, took 41 percent, and Clinton was reelected with 49 percent of the vote and 379 electoral college delegates. Following… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 1996 Quick Facts date November 5, 1996 participants Bill Clinton Bob Dole Al Gore Jack Kemp Ralph Nader Ross Perot related topics Democratic Party Libertarian Party Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 1996 Additional Information More About External Websites Maps of World - U.S. Presidential Election 1996 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!