https://www.britannica.com/biography/Bob-Dole
Bob Dole | United States senator | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Bob Dole United States senator Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Bob Dole United States senator Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Alternative Title: Robert Joseph Dole Bob Dole, byname of Robert Joseph Dole, (born July 22, 1923, Russell, Kansas, U.S.), American politician who served in the U.S. Senate (1969–96) and who was the Republican Party’s nominee for president in 1996 but lost to Bill Clinton. Dole was born into a working-class family and left the University of Kansas to serve in the army during World War II. He became a second lieutenant and was seriously wounded during fighting in Italy. His recuperation from almost total paralysis took nearly four years, and, despite three major operations, he was left without the use of his right arm and hand. He returned to school and graduated with a law degree from Washburn Municipal University in Topeka, Kansas. From 1951 to 1953 Dole was a Republican member of the Kansas state legislature, and he thereafter served four terms as the Russell county prosecuting attorney. From 1961 to 1969 he was a Republican member of the U.S. House of Representatives. He was first elected to the U.S. Senate in 1968 and was reelected repeatedly thereafter. He also served (1971–73) as chairman of the Republican National Committee under Pres. Richard M. Nixon. In 1984 Dole, who was known as a pragmatic conservative, became leader of his party in the Senate, and he twice served as majority leader (1984–86; 1994–96). He was selected by Pres. Gerald R. Ford as the vice presidential candidate in the 1976 election, and after their defeat he unsuccessfully sought the Republican presidential nomination in 1980 and 1988. After finally clinching his party’s nomination for president in March 1996, he retired from the Senate in June to devote himself wholly to the campaign, naming former congressman Jack Kemp as his running mate. Dole was defeated in November when Pres. Bill Clinton won election to a second term. Dole, Bob: campaign buttonButton from Bob Dole's 1996 presidential campaign.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. American presidential election, 1996Results of the American presidential election, 1996Source: Federal Election Commission.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today After leaving public office, Dole worked for a law firm in Washington, D.C., but he frequently appeared on television as a political commentator. His numerous honours include the Presidential Medal of Freedom (1997). In 2005 he published the memoir One Soldier’s Story. His second wife, Elizabeth Hanford Dole, whom he married in 1975, also held a number of influential U.S. governmental posts. This article was most recently revised and updated by Amy Tikkanen, Corrections Manager. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: The Bill Clinton administration …41 percent for Republican challenger Bob Dole and 8 percent for Perot. In the electoral college Clinton won 379 votes to Dole’s 159.… Bill Clinton: Presidency …the popular vote to Republican Bob Dole’s 41 percent and Perot’s 8 percent; the electoral vote was 379 to 159. Strong economic growth continued during Clinton’s second term, eventually setting a record for the country’s longest peacetime expansion. By 1998 the Clinton administration was overseeing the first balanced budget since… United States presidential election of 1976: The Republican campaign Bob Dole of Kansas, known as a tough, hard-hitting campaigner, to be his running mate. Ford’s acceptance speech, in which he challenged Carter to a series of televised debates, was probably the best of his career.… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Bob Dole Quick Facts View Media Page born July 22, 1923 (age 96) Russell, Kansas title / office United States Senate, United States (1969-1996) house of representatives, United States (1961-1969) political affiliation Republican Party awards and honors Presidential Medal of Freedom (1997) notable family members spouse Elizabeth Dole Bob Dole Additional Information More About External Websites Official Site of Bob Dole Kansapedia - Kansas Historical Society - Biography of Bob Dole Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Bob Dole - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!