https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-2000
United States presidential election of 2000 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 2000 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction The campaign Results of the 2000 election United States presidential election of 2000 United States government Written By: Michael Levy See Article History United States presidential election of 2000, American presidential election held on Nov. 7, 2000, in which Republican George W. Bush narrowly lost the popular vote to Democrat Al Gore but defeated Gore in the electoral college. American presidential election, 2000Results of the American presidential election, 2000 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes George W. Bush Republican 271 50,456,002 Al Gore Democratic 2661 50,999,897 Ralph Nader Green 2,882,955 Patrick J. Buchanan Reform 448,895 Harry Browne Libertarian 384,431 Howard Phillips Constitution 98,020 John Hagelin Natural Law 83,714 James Harris Socialist Workers 7,378 Neil Smith Arizona Libertarian 5,775 David McReynolds Socialist 5,602 1One Gore elector from Washington, D.C., abstained from casting an electoral vote. Source: Federal Election Commission.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The campaign Gore, as Bill Clinton’s vice president for eight years, was the clear favourite in the primary to win the Democratic nomination. He captured it easily, seeing off a challenge from Bill Bradley, a former U.S. senator from New Jersey. Al Gore.© Lisa Quinones—Black Star/PNI Most of the excitement in the primaries came on the Republican side, as Bush faced a stiff challenge from John McCain, a U.S. senator from Arizona; other candidates included businessman Steve Forbes, diplomat and conservative commentator Alan Keyes, U.S. senator Orrin Hatch, and conservative activist Gary Bauer. Bush ultimately prevailed after a strenuous fight, including an especially brutal effort by the Bush campaign in the South Carolina primary. Despite the continued economic growth that Gore could attribute to his economic stewardship with Clinton, early in the general election campaign it appeared that Bush might easily defeat Gore, who appeared wooden and dismissive of Bush in the campaign’s debates and who was criticized repeatedly by the Bush campaign as an exaggerator. In late October, however, the gap in the polls between Bush and Gore narrowed dramatically. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today On election night, no clear winner emerged. Print and broadcast media cited often contradictory exit-polling numbers, and the races in Oregon and New Mexico would remain too close to call for some days. Ultimately, the contest focused on Florida. Networks initially projected Gore the winner in Florida, but later they declared that Bush had opened an insurmountable lead. Gore called Bush to concede the election, but in the early hours of the following morning it became apparent that the Florida race was much closer than Gore’s staff had originally believed. Fewer than 600 votes separated the candidates, and that margin appeared to be narrowing. About 3:00 am Gore called a stunned Bush to retract his concession. Florida state election law required a mandatory statewide machine recount. By November 10 the machine recount was complete, and Bush’s lead stood at 327 votes out of six million cast. As court challenges were issued over the legality of hand recounts in select counties, news stories were filled with the arcane vocabulary of the election judge. County officials tried to discern voter intent through a cloud of “hanging chads” (incompletely punched paper ballots) and “pregnant chads” (paper ballots that were dimpled, but not pierced, during the voting process), as well as “overvotes” (ballots that recorded multiple votes for the same office) and “undervotes” (ballots that recorded no vote for a given office). Also at issue was the so-called butterfly ballot design used in Palm Beach county, which caused confusion among some Gore voters—prompting them to inadvertently cast their votes for third-party candidate Pat Buchanan, who received some 3,400 (some 20 percent of his total votes statewide). Sample ballot from Palm Beach county, Florida, for the 2000 U.S. presidential election. By late November the Florida state canvassing board certified Bush the winner by 537 votes, but the election still was unresolved, as legal battles remained. Eventually, the Florida Supreme Court decided (4–3) to order a statewide manual recount of the approximately 45,000 undervotes—ballots that machines recorded as not clearly expressing a presidential vote—and accepted some previously uncertified results in both Miami-Dade and Palm Beach counties, reducing Bush’s lead to a mere 154 votes. The Bush campaign quickly filed an appeal with the U.S. Supreme Court, asking it to delay the recounts until it could hear the case; a stay was issued by the court on December 9. Three days later, concluding (7–2) that a fair statewide recount could not be performed in time to meet the December 18 deadline for certifying the state’s electors, the court issued a controversial 5–4 decision to reverse the Florida Supreme Court’s recount order, effectively awarding the presidency to Bush (see Bush v. Gore). By winning Florida, Bush narrowly won the electoral vote over Gore by 271 to 266—only 1 more than the required 270 (one Gore elector abstained). Gore, however, won the popular vote over Bush by some 500,000 votes—the first inversion of the electoral and popular vote since 1888. For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 1996. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 2004. Michael Levy Results of the 2000 election The results of the 2000 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 2000 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes *One Gore elector from Washington, D.C., abstained from casting an electoral vote. Source: Federal Election Commission. George W. Bush Republican 271 50,456,002 Al Gore Democratic 266* 50,999,897 Ralph Nader Green 2,882,955 Patrick J. Buchanan Reform 448,895 Harry Browne Libertarian 384,431 Howard Phillips Constitution 98,020 John Hagelin Natural Law 83,714 James Harris Socialist Workers 7,378 Neil Smith Arizona Libertarian 5,775 David McReynolds Socialist 5,602 Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: The Bill Clinton administration Despite continued economic growth, the 2000 presidential election between Vice Pres. Al Gore and Texas Gov. George W. Bush, the former president’s eldest son, was one of the closest and most controversial in the republic’s history. Although Gore won the nationwide popular vote by more than 500,000 votes, the presidency… Television in the United States: Breaking news …High School shootings, and the 2000 presidential election were among the succession of stories to receive what came to be known as “wall-to-wall coverage.”… Democratic Party: From Watergate to a new millennium …the Democratic presidential nomination in 2000. In the general election, Gore won 500,000 more popular votes than Republican George W. Bush but narrowly lost in the electoral college after the Supreme Court of the United States ordered a halt to the manual recounting of disputed ballots in Florida. The party’s… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 2000 Quick Facts date November 7, 2000 participants Pat Buchanan George W. Bush Al Gore Ralph Nader Dick Cheney Joseph Lieberman key people Karl Rove Jeb Bush Chris Christie related topics Democratic Party Libertarian Party Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 2000 Additional Information More About External Websites Parliament of Australia - US Presidential Election 2000 h2g2 - The US Presidential Election 2000 - A Democrat's Perspective Maps of World - U.S. Presidential Election 2000 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!