https://www.britannica.com/biography/George-W-Bush
George W. Bush | Biography, Presidency, & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents George W. Bush president of United States Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction & Quick Facts Early life Governor of Texas Presidency Early initiatives The September 11 attacks Domestic measures Treatment of detainees The Iraq War Road to war Operation Iraqi Freedom Occupation and insurgency Foreign aid Domestic affairs Education Medicare Reelection Social Security and immigration Environmental and science policy Later developments and assessment 2006 elections The Plame affair Postpresidential activities Cabinet of Pres. George W. Bush George W. Bush president of United States Written By: Brian Duignan Last Updated: Apr 17, 2020 See Article History Alternative Title: George Walker Bush Learn how the September 11th terrorist attacks and the Iraq War defined George W. Bush's presidencyAn overview of George W. Bush.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article George W. Bush, in full George Walker Bush, (born July 6, 1946, New Haven, Connecticut, U.S. ), 43rd president of the United States (2001–09), who led his country’s response to the September 11 terrorist attacks in 2001 and initiated the Iraq War in 2003. Narrowly winning the electoral college vote in 2000 over Vice Pres. Al Gore in one of the closest and most-controversial elections in American history, George W. Bush became the first person since Benjamin Harrison in 1888 to be elected president despite having lost the nationwide popular vote. Before his election as president, Bush was a businessman and served as governor of Texas (1995–2000). Key events in the life of George W. Bush.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Top Questions What was George W. Bush’s family like? George W. Bush was the eldest of six children of George H.W. Bush, who served as the 41st president of the United States (1989–93), and Barbara Bush. His paternal grandfather, Prescott Bush, was a U.S. senator from Connecticut (1952–63). Where was George W. Bush educated? From 1961 to 1964 George W. Bush attended Phillips Academy in Andover, Massachusetts, the boarding school from which his father, George H.W. Bush, had graduated. He received a bachelor’s degree in history from Yale University, his father’s and grandfather’s alma mater, in 1968 and an M.B.A. from Harvard University in 1975. What did George W. Bush accomplish? A U.S. president, George W. Bush initiated what he called the “war on terrorism,” portrayed as an American-led global counterterrorism campaign launched in response to the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. Included were the Afghanistan (2001–14) and Iraq (2003–11) wars. Also, his administration sponsored reforms of Medicare and the U.S. education system. Early life Bush was the eldest of six children of George H.W. Bush, who served as the 41st president of the United States (1989–93), and Barbara Bush. His paternal grandfather, Prescott Bush, was a U.S. senator from Connecticut (1952–63). The younger Bush grew up largely in Midland and Houston, Texas. From 1961 to 1964 he attended Phillips Academy in Andover, Massachusetts, the boarding school from which his father had graduated. He received a bachelor’s degree in history from Yale University, his father’s and grandfather’s alma mater, in 1968. Bush was president of his fraternity and, like his father, a member of Yale’s secretive Skull and Bones society; unlike his father, he was only an average student and did not excel in athletics. Bush, George: family, 1964The Bush family in 1964 in Houston, Texas. Parents George and Barbara Bush are shown sitting on the loveseat, their sons George W. Bush perching on the arm and Jeb Bush standing centre.National Archives, Washington, D.C. Bush, George W.: Yale UniversityGeorge W. Bush at Yale University, 1964.Courtesy of the George W. Bush Presidential Library & Museum In May 1968, two weeks before his graduation from Yale and the expiration of his student draft deferment, Bush applied as a pilot trainee in the Texas Air National Guard, whose members were less likely than regular soldiers to fight in the Vietnam War. Commissioned a second lieutenant in July 1968, he became a certified fighter pilot in June 1970. In the fall of 1970, he applied for admission to the University of Texas law school but was rejected. Although Bush apparently missed at least eight months of duty between May 1972 and May 1973, he was granted an early discharge so that he could start Harvard Business School in the fall of 1973. His spotty military record resurfaced as a campaign issue in both the 2000 and 2004 presidential elections. After receiving an M.B.A. from Harvard in 1975, Bush returned to Midland, where he began working for a Bush family friend, an oil and gas attorney, and later started his own oil and gas firm. He married Laura Welch, a teacher and librarian, in Midland in 1977. After an unsuccessful run for Congress in 1978, Bush devoted himself to building his business. With help from his uncle, who was then raising funds for Bush’s father’s campaign for the Republican presidential nomination, Bush was able to attract numerous prominent investors. The company struggled through the early 1980s until the eventual collapse of oil prices in 1986, when it was purchased by the Harken Energy Corporation. Bush received Harken stock, a job as a consultant to the company, and a seat on the company’s board of directors. Bush, George W.: familyGeorge W. Bush with his wife, Laura, and the couple's daughters, Jenna (left) and Barbara, 1993.Courtesy of the George W. Bush Presidential Library & Museum Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today In the same year, shortly after his 40th birthday, Bush gave up drinking alcohol. “I realized,” he later explained, “that alcohol was beginning to crowd out my energies and could crowd, eventually, my affections for other people.” His decision was partly the result of a self-described spiritual awakening and a strengthening of his Christian faith that had begun the previous year, after a conversation with the Rev. Billy Graham, a Bush family friend. After the sale of his company, Bush spent 18 months in Washington, D.C., working as an adviser and speechwriter in his father’s presidential campaign. Following the election in 1988, he moved to Dallas, where he and a former business partner organized a group of investors to purchase the Texas Rangers professional baseball team. Although Bush’s investment, which he made with a loan he obtained by using his Harken stock as collateral, was relatively small, his role as managing partner of the team brought him much exposure in the media and earned him a reputation as a successful businessman. When Bush’s partnership sold the team in 1998, Bush received nearly $15 million. Bush, George W.; Bush, George H.W.George W. Bush (left) and his father, George H.W. Bush, walking on the South Lawn at the White House, 1992.National Archives, Washington, D.C. George W. Bush Quick Facts View Media Page born July 6, 1946 (age 73) New Haven, Connecticut title / office presidency of the United States of America, United States (2001-2009) governor, Texas (1995-2001) political affiliation Republican Party role in Afghanistan War Iraq War Strategic Arms Reduction Talks USA PATRIOT Act Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 No Child Left Behind Act Homeland Security Act notable family members spouse Laura Welch Bush father George H. W. Bush mother Barbara Bush brother Jeb Bush related facts and data Barack Obama - Facts Load Next Page George W. Bush Additional Information More About Additional Reading External Websites The White House - Biography of George W. Bush United States History - Biography of George W. Bush George W. Bush Presidential Library and Museum - Biography of George W. Bush USA 4 Kids - Biography of George W. Bush Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. George W. Bush - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) George W. Bush - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!