https://www.britannica.com/biography/Al-Gore
Al Gore | Biography & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Al Gore vice president of United States Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Al Gore vice president of United States Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Mar 27, 2020 See Article History Alternative Titles: Albert Arnold Gore, Jr. Al Gore, in full Albert Arnold Gore, Jr., (born March 31, 1948, Washington, D.C., U.S.), 45th vice president of the United States (1993–2001) in the Democratic administration of President Bill Clinton. In the 2000 presidential election, one of the most controversial elections in American history, Gore won the nationwide popular vote over George W. Bush by more than 500,000 votes but narrowly lost in the electoral college, 271–266—the first inversion of the electoral and popular vote since 1888. In 2007 Gore was awarded, with the United Nations’ Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the Nobel Prize for Peace for his efforts to raise awareness about global warming. Britannica Explores Earth's To-Do List Human action has triggered a vast cascade of environmental problems that now threaten the continued ability of both natural and human systems to flourish. Solving the critical environmental problems of global warming, water scarcity, pollution, and biodiversity loss are perhaps the greatest challenges of the 21st century. Will we rise to meet them? Gore was the son of a Democratic congressman and senator from Tennessee. He graduated from Harvard University in 1969 and enlisted in the army, serving in the Vietnam War as a military reporter from 1969 through 1971. He then became a reporter for The Tennessean, a newspaper based in Nashville, Tennessee. While working (1971–76) for that paper, Gore also studied philosophy and law at Vanderbilt University. Gore won election to the U.S. House of Representatives in 1976 and was reelected three times before winning a seat in the Senate in 1984. In 1988 he was an unsuccessful candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination. Gore was reelected to the Senate in 1990, and in 1991 he was one of only 10 Democratic senators who voted to authorize the use of American military force against Iraq in the Persian Gulf War. In 1992 he was chosen by Clinton, the Democratic presidential nominee, to be his running mate, and Gore became vice president when Clinton defeated Republican incumbent George Bush in the 1992 presidential election. In 1993 Gore helped the Clinton administration secure congressional passage of the North American Free Trade Agreement. Gore and Clinton were reelected in 1996 to a second term, defeating the Republicans led by Bob Dole. Al Gore.© Lisa Quinones—Black Star/PNI politics: playing cardsPlaying cards featuring depictions of (left) Vice President Albert Gore and (right) President William J. ClintonAmericana/Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Gore announced his candidacy for the presidency of the United States in June 1999. A moderate Democrat, he focused his campaign on the economy, health care, and education. On issues that were controversial in the United States, Gore generally supported the Democratic Party’s platform, favouring abortion rights for women and greater restrictions on guns, but he broke with the party’s traditional stance on the death penalty, which he supported. Gore favoured strong measures to protect the environment; his ideas on this issue were set out in his book Earth in the Balance: Ecology and the Human Spirit (1992). Campaign finance reform also became a prominent issue following allegations that Gore conducted illegal fund-raising activities during Clinton’s 1996 reelection bid. Although Gore denied knowing at the time that he was committing any wrongdoing, Republicans repeatedly called for an independent counsel to investigate the matter. American presidential election, 2000Results of the American presidential election, 2000Source: Federal Election Commission.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today After easily winning the Democratic presidential nomination, Gore trailed in most public opinion polls until his selection of a vice presidential running mate, Senator Joseph Lieberman, who became the first Jewish American on a national presidential ticket. As the campaign progressed, the polls remained close. When the votes were counted on election night, it became clear that the election would turn on the outcome in Florida, whose 25 electoral votes would give the winner of that state a narrow majority in the electoral college. After the television networks declared Bush the winner in Florida and president-elect, Gore called Bush to concede. Later that evening, however, as continuing returns from Florida showed Gore closing the gap with Bush, Gore decided to cancel a public concession speech and called Bush to withdraw his concession. Trailing in Florida after a mandatory recount by fewer than 1,000 votes, Gore sought a manual recount of ballots in heavily Democratic counties in southern Florida. For five weeks, the election remained unresolved as Florida state courts and federal courts weighed arguments by the Bush and Gore campaigns. Eventually, Gore won a controversial 4–3 victory in the Florida Supreme Court, which ordered a statewide manual recount of the approximately 45,000 “undervotes” (i.e., ballots that machines recorded as not clearly expressing a presidential vote). The Bush campaign quickly filed an appeal with the U.S. Supreme Court. Concluding (7–2) that a quick statewide recount could not be performed fairly unless elaborate ground rules were established, the court issued a controversial 5–4 decision to reverse the Florida Supreme Court’s recount order, effectively awarding the presidency to Bush. In a speech watched by more than 65 million Americans the following evening, Gore conceded defeat, saying that “while I strongly disagree with the court’s decision, I accept it.” He also pledged to “honour the new president-elect and do everything possible to help him bring Americans together in fulfillment of the great vision that our Declaration of Independence defines and that our Constitution affirms and defends.” Gore subsequently devoted much of his time to environmental issues. He discussed global warming in the 2006 documentary An Inconvenient Truth and in its companion book. The film won an Academy Award for best documentary. In 2007 Gore published The Assault on Reason, in which he sharply criticized the administration of President Bush. Later that year he received an Emmy Award for creative achievement in interactive television for Current TV, a user-generated-content channel he cofounded in 2005; the channel was sold to Al Jazeera, an Arabic-language cable television news network, in 2013. That year Gore also published The Future: Six Drivers of Global Change, which analyzed the impact of various sociopolitical, technological, and environmental forces on humanity’s prospects. An Inconvenient Sequel: Truth to Power, the sequel to his 2006 documentary, was released in 2017. Al Gore in An Inconvenient Truth (2006).© Eric Lee/Paramount Classics, a division of Paramount Pictures; all rights reserved This article was most recently revised and updated by Amy McKenna, Senior Editor. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: The Bill Clinton administration Al Gore and Texas Gov. George W. Bush, the former president’s eldest son, was one of the closest and most controversial in the republic’s history. Although Gore won the nationwide popular vote by more than 500,000 votes, the presidency hinged on the outcome in Florida,… George W. Bush: Governor of Texas Al Gore, the Democratic Party nominee; Ralph Nader, the Green Party candidate; and political journalist Patrick Buchanan, the nominee of the Reform Party. His running mate was Dick Cheney, former chief of staff for Pres. Gerald Ford and secretary of defense during the presidency of… Tennessee: Tennessee since the mid-20th century …of Tennessee’s last Democratic senators, Al Gore, also served as vice president (1993–2001) and was the Democratic candidate in the 2000 presidential electon.… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Al Gore Quick Facts View Media Page born March 31, 1948 (age 72) Washington, D.C., United States title / office vice president of the United States of America, United States (1993-2001) United States Senate, United States (1985-1993) House of Representatives, United States (1977-1985) political affiliation Democratic Party notable works “The Future: Six Drivers of Global Change” subjects of study environmentalism awards and honors Nobel Prize (2007) Al Gore Additional Information More About External Websites Internet Hall of Fame - Biography of Al Gore The Nobel Prize - Biography of Al Gore Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Al Gore - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!