https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-presidential-election-of-2004
United States presidential election of 2004 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States presidential election of 2004 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction The campaign Results of the 2004 election United States presidential election of 2004 United States government Written By: Michael Levy See Article History United States presidential election of 2004, American presidential election held on Nov. 2, 2004, in which Republican George W. Bush was elected to a second term, defeating Democrat John Kerry, a U.S senator from Massachusetts. American presidential election, 2004Results of the American presidential election, 2004 Presidential Candidate Political Party Electoral Votes Popular Votes George W. Bush Republican 286 62,028,285 John Kerry Democratic 251 59,028,109 Ralph Nader Independent 463,647 Michael Badnarik Libertarian 397,234 Michael Peroutka Constitution 143,609 David Cobb Green 119,862 Leonard Peltier Peace and Freedom 27,607 Walter F. Brown Independent 10,822 John Edwards (not a candidate) 1 Source: Federal Election Commission.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The campaign In the primary campaign, Bush faced little opposition for the Republican nomination, while Kerry overcame an initial surge by Vermont governor Howard Dean and North Carolina senator John Edwards; Edwards was nominated as Kerry’s running mate. The general election was contested less than 18 months after the beginning of the Iraq War and three years after the September 11 attacks that killed nearly 3,000 people. As a result, central issues in the campaign were terrorism and, particularly, the Iraq War—with the lack of evidence that Iraq had stocks of weapons of mass destruction (one rationale given for the invasion) and with continuing American casualties. Kerry touted plans to reduce joblessness and the national deficit, increase access to health care, and roll back tax cuts that Bush had secured for America’s wealthiest. Other campaign issues included free trade and the role of the country in the international community, as well as debates over religion, abortion, gay rights (particularly same-sex marriage), and civil rights. U.S. Pres. George W. Bush delivering the 2002 State of the Union address, in which he described Iraq, Iran, and North Korea as an “axis of evil.”Eric Draper/White House Kerry, JohnJohn Kerry, 2004.Sharon Farmer Candidate spending, voter turnout, and partisan dissension were high, and Bush defeated Kerry in a contentious and close election, which, as in 2000, hinged on the electoral votes of a single state, this time Ohio rather than Florida. Bush finished with 50.7 percent of the vote and 286 electoral votes (16 more than the required 270), while Kerry captured 48.3 percent and 251 electoral votes (Edwards received 1 electoral vote). For the results of the previous election, see United States presidential election of 2000. For the results of the subsequent election, see United States presidential election of 2008. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Michael Levy Results of the 2004 election The results of the 2004 U.S. presidential election are provided in the table. American presidential election, 2004 presidential candidate political party electoral votes popular votes Source: Federal Election Commission. George W. Bush Republican 286 62,028,285 John Kerry Democratic 251 59,028,109 Ralph Nader Independent 463,647 Michael Badnarik Libertarian 397,234 Michael Peroutka Constitution 143,609 David Cobb Green 119,862 Leonard Peltier Peace and Freedom 27,607 Walter F. Brown Independent 10,822 John Edwards (not a candidate) 1 Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: The George W. Bush administration …in the campaign for the 2004 presidential election between Bush and his Democratic challenger, U.S. Sen. John Kerry of Massachusetts. Other campaign issues included joblessness, homeland security, free trade, health care, and the role of the country in the international community, as well as debates over religion, abortion, marriage, and… Iowa caucuses: History of the Iowa caucuses In 2004, Iowa once again crowned a Democratic nominee. Senator John Kerry (Massachusetts) came in, and with the air of a war hero’s electability, the latter washed over front-runner and former Vermont governor Howard Dean in the caucuses and rode the current all the way to… John Kerry …securing the Democratic nomination in 2004, Kerry chose as his running mate John Edwards, a U.S. senator from North Carolina who had contended ably for the primary nomination. Campaigning in the general election against incumbent Pres. George W. Bush, Kerry touted plans to reduce joblessness and the national deficit, increase… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States presidential election of 2004 Quick Facts date November 2, 2004 participants George W. Bush Ralph Nader Dick Cheney John Kerry John Edwards key people Karl Rove related topics Democratic Party Libertarian Party Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States presidential election of 2004 Additional Information More About External Websites United States History - Election of 2004 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!