https://www.britannica.com/biography/John-Kerry
John Kerry | Biography & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 John Kerry United States senator and secretary of state Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter John Kerry United States senator and secretary of state Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Alternative Title: John Forbes Kerry John Kerry, in full John Forbes Kerry, (born December 11, 1943, Denver, Colorado, U.S.), U.S. politician who served in the Senate (1985–2013) and who was the Democratic Party’s nominee for president in 2004. He later was secretary of state (2013–17) in the administration of Pres. Barack Obama. Kerry was born in a Denver military hospital, the son of Richard Kerry, a World War II pilot and diplomat, and Rosemary Forbes Kerry, a member of Boston’s wealthy Forbes family and a descendant of John Winthrop, first governor of Massachusetts Bay Colony. John Kerry, educated in New England and Switzerland, was a successful student and athlete who nurtured a longtime interest in politics. After graduating from Yale University in 1966, he enlisted in the U.S. Navy and served in the Vietnam War as an officer of a gunboat in the Mekong delta. By the time he returned from Vietnam in 1969, he had achieved the rank of lieutenant and had been honoured with a Silver Star, a Bronze Star, and three Purple Hearts. Concluding his military service in 1970, he questioned the purpose and execution of the war and was a cofounder of the Vietnam Veterans of America and a spokesperson for the Vietnam Veterans Against the War. In this role he gained national attention in 1971 when he testified before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. The following year he ran unsuccessfully for the U.S. House of Representatives and enlisted in the Naval Reserve. In 1976 he graduated from Boston College Law School and became assistant district attorney in Middlesex county, Massachusetts, winning notice for his tough stance on organized crime. From 1979 he practiced law privately for a few years before resuming his political career. In 1982 he was elected lieutenant governor of Massachusetts, and in 1984 he won election to the U.S. Senate. He was reelected three times (1990, 1996, and 2002). As senator, Kerry fought for campaign finance reform, investment in public education, and deficit reduction. In his freshman term he began an unofficial investigation that persuaded a bipartisan congressional committee to open hearings on the Iran-Contra Affair. He also pursued scandals in banking and, along with Republican Sen. John McCain of Arizona, was known for helping to normalize relations with Vietnam by clearing up the status of American veterans declared POW/MIA (prisoner of war or missing in action). Kerry chaired several committees, most notably the Foreign Relations Committee (2009–13). Kerry, JohnJohn Kerry, c. 2005.Office of U.S. Senator John F. Kerry Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Kerry’s first marriage, to Julia Thorne (in 1970), ended in divorce in 1988. In 1995 he married Teresa Heinz, widow of John Heinz (a Republican senator from Pennsylvania) and heiress to the Heinz Company fortune. After securing the Democratic nomination in 2004, Kerry chose as his running mate John Edwards, a U.S. senator from North Carolina who had contended ably for the primary nomination. Campaigning in the general election against incumbent Pres. George W. Bush, Kerry touted plans to reduce joblessness and the national deficit, increase access to health care, and roll back Bush’s tax cuts for the wealthiest. Kerry also called for greater diplomacy in foreign affairs and pointed to the administration’s failure to capture terrorist Osama bin Laden and to achieve peace in Iraq (see Iraq War). In an election with a huge voter turnout, Kerry suffered a narrow defeat. Kerry, JohnJohn Kerry, 2004.Sharon Farmer Later in 2004 Kerry formed a political action committee that was a prominent source of funding for Democratic candidates in subsequent elections. He endorsed the successful candidacy of U.S. Pres. Barack Obama during the 2008 presidential election. In 2010 Kerry supported the passage of health care and financial reform bills seen as key to the Democratic agenda. In 2012 he was nominated by Obama to succeed Hillary Rodham Clinton as secretary of state. Kerry was subsequently confirmed by the Senate, 94–3, and in February 2013 he assumed the post. Among his notable achievements as secretary of state was helping draft the 2015 agreement between Iran and the P5+1 (the United States and the other permanent members of the UN Security Council [China, France, Russia, and the United Kingdom], along with Germany), which placed limits on Iran’s nuclear program in exchange for the reduction of sanctions against the country. Kerry stepped down as secretary of state when Obama’s second term ended in 2017. He subsequently sought to save the controversial Iran nuclear deal, but in 2018 Republican Pres. Donald Trump withdrew the United States from the agreement. Kerry, JohnJohn Kerry (left) with Barack Obama, 2009.Pete Souza—Official White House Photo Kerry, JohnJohn Kerry (left) meeting with Saudi King ʿAbd Allāh (right), 2013.Jason Reed/AP Images Kerry wrote The New War: The Web of Crime That Threatens America’s Security (1997), A Call to Service (2003), and, with his wife, This Moment on Earth: Today’s New Environmentalists and Their Vision for the Future (2007). The memoir Every Day Is Extra was published in 2018. The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica This article was most recently revised and updated by Amy Tikkanen, Corrections Manager. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: The decision not to respond militarily in Syria Secretary of State John Kerry said that the United States had “high certainty” that chemical weapons had been used and that government forces had carried out the attack. After indicating that U.S. military response would be forthcoming, even without British involvement, Obama shifted gears on August 31 and… Barack Obama: Spring scandals and summer challenges …in February—to be replaced by John Kerry—but who was a potential candidate for the 2016 presidential election.)… Internet: Political campaigns and muckraking Bush and the John Kerry presidential campaigns, as well as the Democratic and Republican parties, came to copy the practices pioneered by Dean and his advisers. In addition, changes in U.S. campaign finance laws allowed for the creation of “527s,” independent action groups such as Moveon.org that used… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. John Kerry Quick Facts View Media Page born December 11, 1943 (age 76) Denver, Colorado title / office secretary of state, United States (2013-2017) United States Senate, United States (1985-2013) political affiliation Democratic Party role in Vietnam War awards and honors Purple Heart John Kerry Additional Information More About External Websites U.S. Department of State - John Kerry Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. John Kerry - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!