https://www.britannica.com/biography/John-Edwards
John Edwards | Biography, Education, Affair, & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 John Edwards United States senator Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter John Edwards United States senator Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica See Article History Alternative Title: John Reid Edwards John Edwards, in full John Reid Edwards, (born June 10, 1953, Seneca, South Carolina, U.S.), U.S. senator, who in 2004 was the vice presidential running mate of John Kerry, the Democratic Party’s nominee for president. He was the son of Wallace Edwards, a textile-mill worker, and Catherine (“Bobbie”) Wade Edwards, a textile worker and later postal worker. He grew up in the mill town of Robbins, North Carolina. The first in his family to attend college, Edwards received a bachelor’s degree in textile management from North Carolina State University in 1974 and a law degree from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in 1977. That year he also married a fellow law student, Elizabeth Anania. Edwards became a successful attorney, first in Nashville, Tennessee, and then in Raleigh, North Carolina, winning multimillion-dollar verdicts in personal-injury lawsuits. The death of his 16-year-old son, Wade, in an automobile accident in 1996 helped to impel Edwards into public service and philanthropy, and in 1998 he was elected to the U.S. Senate from North Carolina. As a senator, Edwards cosponsored a patients’ bill of rights and supported education reform. As a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, he proposed legislation on strengthening homeland security. Seeking the Democratic presidential nomination in 2004, Edwards struck a populist tone, with charismatic stump speeches that evoked his modest upbringing in Robbins. Though Edwards’s presidential bid was unsuccessful, John Kerry, the party’s eventual nominee, chose him as his running mate. The pair was narrowly defeated in the November elections by incumbent President George W. Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney. Edwards subsequently devoted much of his time to antipoverty efforts, becoming director of the newly created Center on Poverty, Work, and Opportunity at the University of North Carolina in 2005. The following year he announced that he would seek the Democratic Party’s presidential nomination in 2008. Edwards’s bid for the presidency got off to an inauspicious start, as he finished second in the Iowa caucus, third in the New Hampshire primary, and third in the South Carolina primary (his native state) in January 2008. In late January he withdrew from the race. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today During that campaign the National Enquirer reported that Edwards carried on an extramarital affair with a campaign worker. Edwards first denied the allegation, but in August 2008 he acknowledged the affair. In 2010 he admitted that he was the father of the child born to her in 2008. Edwards and his wife separated in 2010, and Elizabeth died later that year after a highly publicized battle with cancer. After a two-year investigation uncovered evidence that he had received hundreds of thousands of dollars to conceal his extramarital affair, Edwards was indicted in June 2011 by a federal grand jury on charges relating to illegal campaign contributions, and he went on trial in 2012. Edwards was found not guilty on one count, but, because the jury was unable to reach a verdict on the five other charges, the judge declared a mistrial on those counts. The five remaining charges were later dismissed. The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica This article was most recently revised and updated by Adam Augustyn, Managing Editor, Reference Content. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States Presidential Election of 2008: Democratic Party … Iowa caucuses: History of the Iowa caucuses …as well as former senator John Edwards (North Carolina), forging a path to the nomination and ultimate victory over his rival, Republican Senator John McCain (Arizona). McCain himself made a poor showing in Iowa, though former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee established himself as a national figure in part due to… John Kerry …chose as his running mate John Edwards, a U.S. senator from North Carolina who had contended ably for the primary nomination. Campaigning in the general election against incumbent Pres. George W. Bush, Kerry touted plans to reduce joblessness and the national deficit, increase access to health care, and roll back… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. John Edwards Quick Facts View Media Page born June 10, 1953 (age 66) Seneca, South Carolina title / office United States Senate, United States (1999-2005) political affiliation Democratic Party role in United States presidential election of 2008 notable family members spouse Elizabeth Edwards John Edwards Additional Information More About External Websites Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. John Edwards - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!