https://www.britannica.com/biography/Barack-Obama
Barack Obama | Biography, Presidency, & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents Barack Obama president of United States Article Facts & Data Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction & Quick Facts Early life Politics and ascent to the presidency Presidency The Nobel Peace Prize and partisanship Passage of health care reform Economic challenges Deepwater Horizon oil spill Wars in Iraq and Afghanistan The midterm congressional election and its aftermath Upheaval in the Middle East Budget battles The 2012 election The gun-control debate and sequestration Spring scandals and summer challenges Taking heat and taking the lead Executive action and the 2014 midterm election Baltimore riot, Charleston shooting, Supreme Court approval of same-sex marriage, and agreement with Iran More executive action Historic trips and more shootings Life after the presidency President Obama’s cabinet Barack Obama president of United States Written By: Jeff Wallenfeldt David Mendell See Article History Alternative Title: Barack Hussein Obama II Learn how President Obama passed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and ended the Iraq WarAn overview of Barack Obama.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article Barack Obama, in full Barack Hussein Obama II, (born August 4, 1961, Honolulu, Hawaii, U.S.), 44th president of the United States (2009–17) and the first African American to hold the office. Before winning the presidency, Obama represented Illinois in the U.S. Senate (2005–08). He was the third African American to be elected to that body since the end of Reconstruction (1877). In 2009 he was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize “for his extraordinary efforts to strengthen international diplomacy and cooperation between peoples.” Barack Obama—with his wife, Michelle—being sworn in as the 44th president of the United States, Jan. 20, 2009. MSgt Cecilio Ricardo, U.S. Air Force/U.S. Department of Defense Key events in the life of Barack Obama.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Top Questions Who were Barack Obama’s parents? Barack Obama’s parents married while students at the University of Hawaii. His father, Barack Obama, Sr., a Kenyan, became an economist in the government of Kenya. His mother, S. Ann Dunham, became an anthropologist. They divorced in 1964. Ann then married (and later divorced) another foreign student, Indonesian Lolo Soetoro. Where did Barack Obama attend school? Barack Obama graduated from Punahou School, an elite academy in Honolulu, and then attended Occidental College before transferring to Columbia University and earning (1983) a B.A. in political science. He graduated (1991) magna cum laude from Harvard University’s law school and was the first African American president of the Harvard Law Review. What did Barack Obama do for a living? After working as a writer and editor in Manhattan, Barack Obama became a community organizer in Chicago, lectured on constitutional law at the University of Chicago, worked as a civil rights attorney, and then served in the Illinois Senate (1997–2004), as a U.S. senator (2005–08), and as U.S. president (2009–17). What did Barack Obama write? Barack Obama’s first book, Dreams from My Father (1995), is the story of his search for his biracial identity by tracing the lives of his now-deceased father and extended family in Kenya. His second book, The Audacity of Hope (2006), is a polemic on his vision for the United States. What is Barack Obama famous for? Barack Obama was the first African American president of the United States (2009–17). He oversaw the recovery of the U.S. economy (from the Great Recession of 2008–09) and the enactment of landmark health care reform (the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act). In 2009 he was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. Early life Listen to Janny Scott discuss her biography A Singular Woman: The Untold Story of Barack Obama's MotherJanny Scott discussing her book A Singular Woman: The Untold Story of Barack Obama's Mother (2011), touching on topics such as how the former president's parents met, the spurious “birther” claims about his country of origin, and his childhood experiences in Indonesia, among others.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.See all videos for this article Obama’s father, Barack Obama, Sr., was a teenage goatherd in rural Kenya, won a scholarship to study in the United States, and eventually became a senior economist in the Kenyan government. Obama’s mother, S. Ann Dunham, grew up in Kansas, Texas, and Washington state before her family settled in Honolulu. In 1960 she and Barack Sr. met in a Russian language class at the University of Hawaii and married less than a year later. When Obama was age two, Barack Sr. left to study at Harvard University; shortly thereafter, in 1964, Ann and Barack Sr. divorced. (Obama saw his father only one more time, during a brief visit when Obama was 10.) Later Ann remarried, this time to another foreign student, Lolo Soetoro from Indonesia, with whom she had a second child, Maya. Obama lived for several years in Jakarta with his half sister, mother, and stepfather. While there, Obama attended both a government-run school where he received some instruction in Islam and a Catholic private school where he took part in Christian schooling. He returned to Hawaii in 1971 and lived in a modest apartment, sometimes with his grandparents and sometimes with his mother (she remained for a time in Indonesia, returned to Hawaii, and then went abroad again—partly to pursue work on a Ph.D.—before divorcing Soetoro in 1980). For a brief period his mother was aided by government food stamps, but the family mostly lived a middle-class existence. In 1979 Obama graduated from Punahou School, an elite college preparatory academy in Honolulu. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Obama attended Occidental College in suburban Los Angeles for two years and then transferred to Columbia University in New York City, where in 1983 he received a bachelor’s degree in political science. Influenced by professors who pushed him to take his studies more seriously, Obama experienced great intellectual growth during college and for a couple of years thereafter. He led a rather ascetic life and read works of literature and philosophy by William Shakespeare, Friedrich Nietzsche, Toni Morrison, and others. After serving for a couple of years as a writer and editor for Business International Corp., a research, publishing, and consulting firm in Manhattan, he took a position in 1985 as a community organizer on Chicago’s largely impoverished Far South Side. He returned to school three years later and graduated magna cum laude in 1991 from Harvard University’s law school, where he was the first African American to serve as president of the Harvard Law Review. While a summer associate in 1989 at the Chicago law firm of Sidley Austin, Obama had met Chicago native Michelle Robinson, a young lawyer at the firm. The two married in 1992. After receiving his law degree, Obama moved to Chicago and became active in the Democratic Party. He organized Project Vote, a drive that registered tens of thousands of African Americans on voting rolls and that is credited with helping Democrat Bill Clinton win Illinois and capture the presidency in 1992. The effort also helped make Carol Moseley Braun, an Illinois state legislator, the first African American woman elected to the U.S. Senate. During this period, Obama wrote his first book and saw it published. The memoir, Dreams from My Father (1995), is the story of Obama’s search for his biracial identity by tracing the lives of his now-deceased father and his extended family in Kenya. Obama lectured on constitutional law at the University of Chicago and worked as an attorney on civil rights issues. Barack Obama, 2004.Nam Y. Huh/AP Barack Obama Quick Facts View Media Page born August 4, 1961 (age 58) Honolulu, Hawaii title / office presidency of the United States of America, United States (2009-2017) United States Senate, United States (2005-2008) political affiliation Democratic Party notable works “Dreams from My Father: A Story of Race and Inheritance” “The Audacity of Hope: Thoughts on Reclaiming the American Dream” role in Afghanistan War Syrian Civil War Iraq War Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act Strategic Arms Reduction Talks Paris Agreement USA PATRIOT Act awards and honors Nobel Prize (2009) Grammy Award (2007) Grammy Award (2005) notable family members spouse Michelle Obama related facts and data Hillary Clinton - Facts View Facts & Data did you know? When Obama traveled to Kenya in 2006, thousands of people waited to welcome him, lining the streets. The Obamas signed a multiyear production deal with Netflix in 2018. In 2012, Barack Obama became the first U.S. president to officially sanction same-sex marriage. During his presidency some claimed that Barack Obama was not born in the United States, which, according to the U.S. Constitution, would make him unable to serve as president. He released his birth certificate to reaffirm that he had been born in Hawaii. Load Next Page Barack Obama Additional Information More About Additional Reading External Websites The White House - Biography of Barack Obama BlackPast - Biography of Barack Obama, Jr. Miller Center - Biography of Barack Obama The Nobel Prize - Biography of Barack H. Obama Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Barack Obama - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) Barack Obama - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!