https://www.britannica.com/event/United-States-Presidential-Election-of-2012
United States Presidential Election of 2012 | United States government | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents United States Presidential Election of 2012 United States government Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction The Campaign Background and Context United States Presidential Election of 2012 United States government Written By: André Munro See Article History American voters went to the polls on November 6, 2012, to determine—for the 57th time—their country’s president for the next four years. Incumbent Democratic President Barack Obama’s reelection bid was, from the outset, expected to be closely contested as the United States faced a number of challenges, most notably a struggling economy. After tumultuous primaries, Mitt Romney, former governor of Massachusetts, was nominated by the Republican Party as its presidential candidate. On election night, television networks and media organizations projected a wide victory in the electoral college for Obama; the results of the popular vote, however, proved to be much closer. Results of the American presidential election, 2012.Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Read More on This Topic Barack Obama: The 2012 election At the beginning of September 2012, at its national convention in Charlotte, North Carolina, the Democratic Party officially nominated Obama… The Campaign The American electorate faced two markedly different visions for the future of the country. Romney proposed to cut taxes and governmental regulations in order to reduce the burdens on small businesses and thereby bolster economic growth. He also promised to repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, the health care reform legislation put into place by the Obama administration, and to achieve energy independence by facilitating the development of domestic sources of energy, such as offshore oil. Romney’s selection of Congressman Paul Ryan as his vice presidential running mate confirmed his preference for laissez-faire policies. Obama, meanwhile, defended his economic record, arguing that his actions in response to the Great Recession (2007–09) and the financial crisis of 2008 had prevented a full-scale depression and laid the foundation for recovery. His plan for greater prosperity emphasized strategic investments in transportation infrastructure, education, and clean energy. While the economy occupied the centre stage of the campaign, the two candidates also diverged on foreign policy. Obama presented his record—which included the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq and the assassination of Osama bin Laden, the mastermind of the September 11, 2001, attacks—as proof of his success as commander in chief, while Romney argued that the United States had lost momentum in world affairs under Obama’s watch. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Obama faced an uphill battle for reelection because of the country’s continuing economic problems, in particular high unemployment. Nevertheless, the Obama campaign proved to be competitive, and Obama established a small lead in national polls following the Democratic National Convention in Charlotte, North Carolina, in September. Meanwhile, Romney’s continued reluctance to release his tax returns placed him on the defensive. His campaign became embroiled in controversy when Mother Jones, a liberal news magazine, released a video of Romney at a private fund-raising event in May in which he asserted that the 47 percent of Americans who do not pay federal income taxes believe that they are “victims” and believe that “government has a responsibility to care for them.” The Obama campaign seized on those remarks, which became public in mid-September, to bolster its contention that Romney was out of touch with the American middle class. However, in early October Obama’s lead in the national polls was eroded, if not erased, by a lackluster performance in the first presidential debate. Although Romney’s supporters sensed a turning point in the race, experienced observers cautioned that debates have only rarely affected the outcome of presidential elections. Romney’s momentum also seemed to wane after Obama’s improved performance in the following two debates. As the campaign continued in its final month, the margin between the candidates in the polls, as well as the percentage of undecided voters, became very small. On election day, Obama finished ahead of his Republican rival. He obtained 332 electoral votes (62 votes more than the 270 needed to win), while Romney received 206 electoral votes. Obama won the popular vote as well, although by a relatively small margin. Surpassing expectations, the Obama campaign was able to win all the states it had carried in 2008, with the exception of Indiana and North Carolina. Continuing the trend of ever-increasing campaign spending in the country, the U.S. presidential election was estimated to have cost about $6 billion, making it the most expensive election to date.André Munro Background and Context This section contains links to Britannica articles that provide background on the U.S. presidency. Presidency of the United States: Historian Forrest McDonald provides a historical overview of the office, and Britannica’s former Executive Editor Michael Levy details the historical evolution of the selection process. First Lady: Betty Caroli, author of First Ladies, describes how the role of first lady has changed since Martha Washington’s time. Electoral College: Georgetown University’s Stephen Wayne, author of The Road to the White House, details how the electoral college works and how it came into existence. White House: B. Philip Bigler, author of Washington in Focus, looks at the president’s official office and home. Electronic Voting: René Peralta, of the National Institute of Standards and Technology in Maryland, explores voting technology. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Barack Obama: The 2012 election At the beginning of September 2012, at its national convention in Charlotte, North Carolina, the Democratic Party officially nominated Obama and Biden as its candidates for president and vice president of the United States. On the anniversary of the September 11, 2001, attacks,… United States: The 2012 presidential campaign, a fluctuating economy, and the approaching fiscal cliff As the summer progressed, the 2012 presidential campaign heated up. Mitt Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts, outdistanced a field of competitors that included former speaker of the House Newt Gingrich and former Pennsylvania senator Rick Santorum to gain the Republican nomination. Romney promised to repeal the Patient Protection and… Barack Obama: Budget battles … and Virginia on May 5, 2012. Just a few days later, on May 9, he made headlines again when he revealed a change in his stance on same-sex marriage, saying during a television news interview, “At a certain point I’ve just concluded that for me personally, it is important for… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. United States Presidential Election of 2012 Quick Facts date November 6, 2012 participants Barack Obama Joe Biden Mitt Romney Paul Ryan key people Chris Christie Rick Santorum Paul Ryan Gary Johnson related topics Democratic Party Republican Party United States Presidency of the United States of America United States Presidential Election of 2012 Additional Information More About External Websites GlobalSecurity.org - United States Presidential Election - 2012 Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!