https://www.britannica.com/biography/Mitt-Romney
Mitt Romney | Biography & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents Mitt Romney United States senator Article Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction & Quick Facts Early life and business career Governor of Massachusetts Presidential runs in 2008 and 2012 Later activities and U.S Senate Mitt Romney United States senator Written By: The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Mar 8, 2020 See Article History Alternative Title: Willard Mitt Romney Mitt Romney, in full Willard Mitt Romney, (born March 12, 1947, Detroit, Michigan, U.S. ), American politician who served as governor of Massachusetts (2003–07) and who later represented Utah in the U.S. Senate (2019– ). He was the Republican Party’s presidential nominee in 2012. Early life and business career The youngest of four siblings, Romney was born into one of the most prominent families within the Mormon faith. His father, George Romney, was a successful business executive who managed American Motors from near bankruptcy to record profits and who later served as governor of Michigan (1963–69) and as secretary of housing and urban development (1969–72) in the cabinet of U.S. President Richard M. Nixon. The younger Romney attended Stanford University in California, but he interrupted his studies in 1966 to undertake a 30-month missionary campaign for the Mormon church in France. While there he was seriously injured in a car accident, and he returned to the United States a few months later. Romney graduated summa cum laude from Brigham Young University with a B.A. degree in English in 1971. He earned J.D. and M.B.A. degrees from Harvard University in 1975. Romney then moved into the private sector as an investment consultant. He spent most of the next 20 years with the Boston-based consulting firm Bain & Company and its investment-focused spin-off, Bain Capital, which he cofounded in 1984 with Coleman Andrews and Eric Kriss. During his time at Bain, Romney acquired a multimillion-dollar fortune. Governor of Massachusetts Romney made an unsuccessful run for the U.S. Senate in 1994 against Democratic incumbent Ted Kennedy. His successful turnaround of the scandal-plagued 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City, chronicled by Romney in Turnaround: Crisis, Leadership, and the Olympic Games (2004), served as a springboard for his successful Massachusetts gubernatorial campaign in 2002. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today After taking office in 2003, Romney addressed the state’s budget problems, implemented universal health care for the uninsured, and created a scholarship program for lower- and middle-income students to attend Massachusetts universities. Romney sometimes took centrist positions early in his political career (e.g., during his 1994 campaign against Kennedy, he argued that homosexuals needed “more support from the Republican Party” and that “abortion should be safe and legal”), but later in his career he fashioned himself as a fiscal and social conservative, maintaining that his views on such issues had evolved. Romney was opposed to gay marriage, and, after the Massachusetts Supreme Court ruled in November 2003 that the denial of marriage licenses to same-sex couples was unconstitutional, he tried unsuccessfully to have the issue placed on the ballot. He did not seek a second term as governor, and he left office in 2007. Presidential runs in 2008 and 2012 Romney turned next to pursuing the Republican nomination for president in 2008. His campaign platform stressed his achievements as governor, as well as his business background, and suggested that his successes as governor could be repeated at the federal level. His campaign received a boost in August 2007 when he finished in first place in the Iowa straw poll. In January 2008, however, Romney placed a disappointing second in both the Iowa caucuses and the New Hampshire primary, losing to Mike Huckabee and John McCain, respectively. He won the relatively uncontested Wyoming caucuses and emerged from Super Tuesday (February 5, 2008) in second place, behind front-runner McCain. Acknowledging the gap that existed between the number of delegates that each candidate could claim, Romney suspended his campaign several days later. Romney remained active in politics, and he also published the book No Apology: The Case for American Greatness (2010). In June 2011 he announced his decision to make a second run for the presidency. Romney began the campaign as the perceived front-runner for the Republican nomination. During the ensuing months, however, he struggled to draw support from social conservatives, who still viewed him as a moderate, and he placed second behind more-conservative candidates in important primaries, including Ohio’s. Nevertheless, he was able to rally most of the Republican Party around his candidacy and earned enough delegates after the Texas primary in May 2012 to secure the presidential nomination. In August Romney chose U.S. Representative Paul Ryan of Wisconsin as his vice presidential running mate. Mitt RomneyMitt Romney, 2010.© Christopher Halloran/Shutterstock.com Having emphasized his conservative credentials in the primaries (he called himself “severely conservative”), Romney adopted a more-centrist position during the presidential campaign itself. Throughout the race, Romney sought to convince undecided voters that he could provide what the Democratic incumbent, President Barack Obama, had so far failed to deliver: a full recovery from the Great Recession of 2007–09. He vowed to repeal Obama’s health care reform law, the 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA), calling it “job killer,” and to create 12 million new jobs in his first term by adopting business-friendly policies. Romney presented his own experience as a successful governor and businessman as evidence of his capacity to lead the country on the road to economic recovery and growth. Despite a strong campaign, Romney’s bid for the presidency was unsuccessful, and Obama was reelected. 2012 Romney-Obama presidential debateRepublican challenger Mitt Romney (centre) and U.S. Pres. Barack Obama (right) debating during the 2012 presidential election.Robert Duyos—Sun-Sentinel/ZUMA Press/Alamy Barack Obama and Mitt RomneyU.S. Pres. Barack Obama (right) with Mitt Romney in the Oval Office of the White House on November 29, 2012, shortly after Obama defeated Romney in the presidential election.Pete Souza—Official White House Photo Later activities and U.S Senate Although there was speculation that Romney would stage a third presidential run, in 2015 he publicly stated that he was not entering the 2016 race. However, he was a notable presence during the campaign, becoming a vocal critic of Donald Trump, the eventual Republican nominee and winner. In February 2018 Romney announced that he was running for the U.S. Senate seat in Utah that was being vacated by the retiring Orrin Hatch. Despite their differences, Romney quickly received the endorsement of Trump. Although widely seen as the favourite candidate, Romney failed to secure his party’s nomination in a vote during the Utah Republican convention in April, necessitating a primary election. However, he easily won that contest two months later, and in November 2018 he was elected to the Senate. Shortly before taking office in January 2019, Romney wrote an op-ed in which he was harshly critical of Trump, alleging that the president “has not risen to the mantle of the office.” Later that year the House of Representatives impeached Trump over his actions involving Ukraine, charging him with abuse of power and obstruction of Congress, and in early 2020 the Senate held a trial. Trump was easily acquitted, but Romney made history by voting to convict Trump of abusing his power, thereby becoming the only U.S. senator to vote for the removal of a president from his own party. However, he acquitted Trump on the charge of obstructing Congress.The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica This article was most recently revised and updated by Amy Tikkanen, Corrections Manager. Learn More in these related Britannica articles: United States: The 2012 presidential campaign, a fluctuating economy, and the approaching fiscal cliff Mitt Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts, outdistanced a field of competitors that included former speaker of the House Newt Gingrich and former Pennsylvania senator Rick Santorum to gain the Republican nomination. Romney promised to repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and pledged… Barack Obama: Budget battles The presumptive Republican presidential nominee, Mitt Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts, focused much of his campaign on a critique of Obama’s stewardship of the economy. On the other hand, some observers noted that the U.S. economy was considerably more robust than that of Europe, which remained deeply mired in… presidency of the United States of America: The general election campaign …both presidential candidates (Obama and Mitt Romney) opted out of the public financing program.… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Mitt Romney Quick Facts View Media Page born March 12, 1947 (age 73) Detroit, Michigan title / office United States Senate, United States (2019-) governor, Massachusetts (2003-2007) political affiliation Republican Party related facts and data Paul Ryan - Facts Mitt Romney Additional Information More About External Websites Official Site of Romney For Utah Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Mitt Romney - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!