https://www.britannica.com/biography/Hillary-Clinton
Hillary Clinton | Biography, Politics, & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Contents Hillary Clinton United States senator, first lady, and secretary of state Article Facts & Data Media Info Print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Introduction & Quick Facts Early life Lawyer and first lady of Arkansas First lady of the United States Senate and 2008 presidential run Secretary of state and 2016 presidential candidate Hillary Clinton United States senator, first lady, and secretary of state Written By: Betty Boyd Caroli Last Updated: Mar 6, 2020 See Article History Alternative Titles: Hillary Diane Rodham, Hillary Rodham Clinton Hillary ClintonAn overview of Hillary Clinton's life and career, including her nomination as the Democratic U.S. presidential candidate in 2016.© CCTV America (A Britannica Publishing Partner)See all videos for this article Hillary Clinton, in full Hillary Rodham Clinton, née Hillary Diane Rodham, (born October 26, 1947, Chicago, Illinois, U.S. ), American lawyer and politician who served as a U.S. senator (2001–09) and secretary of state (2009–13) in the administration of Pres. Barack Obama. She had served as first lady (1993–2001) during the administration of her husband, Bill Clinton, 42nd president of the United States. As the Democratic Party’s nominee for president in 2016, she became the first woman to top the presidential ticket of a major party in the United States. Top Questions When was Hillary Clinton born? Hillary Clinton was born on October 26, 1947. Where was Hillary Clinton educated? Hillary Clinton attended Wellesley College and Yale Law School. What was Hillary Clinton famous for? Hillary Clinton was a U.S. senator from 2001 to 2009 and secretary of state from 2009 to 2013. She was the Democratic Party’s presidential candidate in 2016 and first lady when her husband, Bill Clinton, was president from 1993 to 2001. Why was Hillary Clinton important? Hillary Clinton was a U.S. senator, secretary of state, and first lady. She was the first woman to be the presidential nominee of a major American political party. Early life The first president’s wife born after World War II, Hillary was the eldest child of Hugh and Dorothy Rodham. She grew up in Park Ridge, Illinois, a Chicago suburb, where her father’s textile business provided the family with a comfortable income; her parents’ emphasis on hard work and academic excellence set high standards. A student leader in public schools, she was active in youth programs at the First United Methodist Church. Although she later became associated with liberal causes, during this time she adhered to the Republican Party of her parents. She campaigned for Republican presidential candidate Barry Goldwater in 1964 and chaired the local chapter of the Young Republicans. A year later, after she enrolled at Wellesley College, her political views began to change. Influenced by the assassinations of Malcolm X, Robert F. Kennedy, and Martin Luther King, Jr., she joined the Democratic Party and volunteered in the presidential campaign of antiwar candidate Eugene McCarthy. After her graduation from Wellesley in 1969, Hillary entered Yale Law School, where she came under the influence of Yale alumna Marian Wright Edelman, a lawyer and children’s rights advocate. Through her work with Edelman, she developed a strong interest in family law and issues affecting children. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today Lawyer and first lady of Arkansas Although Hillary met Bill Clinton at Yale, they took separate paths after graduation in 1973. He returned to his native Arkansas, and she worked with Edelman in Massachusetts for the Children’s Defense Fund. In 1974 Hillary participated in the Watergate inquiry into the possible impeachment of Pres. Richard M. Nixon. When her assignment ended with Nixon’s resignation in August 1974, she made what some people consider the crucial decision of her life—she moved to Arkansas. She taught at the University of Arkansas School of Law, and, following her marriage to Bill Clinton on October 11, 1975, she joined the prominent Rose Law Firm in Little Rock, Arkansas, where she later became a partner. Bill and Hillary Clinton's wedding dayBill and Hillary Clinton on their wedding day, October 11, 1975.Clinton Family Photographs, Courtesy, William J. Clinton Presidential Library After Bill was elected governor of Arkansas in 1978, she continued to pursue her career and retained her maiden name (until 1982), bringing considerable criticism from voters who felt that her failure to change her name indicated a lack of commitment to her husband. Their only child, Chelsea Victoria, was born in 1980. Throughout Bill’s tenure as governor (1979–81, 1983–92), Hillary worked on programs that aided children and the disadvantaged; she also maintained a successful law practice. She served on the boards of several high-profile corporations and was twice named one of the nation’s 100 most influential lawyers (1988, 1991) by the National Law Journal. She also served as chair of the Arkansas Education Standards Committee and founded the Arkansas Advocates for Children and Families. She was named Arkansas Woman of the Year in 1983 and Arkansas Young Mother of the Year in 1984. Hillary Clinton Quick Facts View Media Page born October 26, 1947 (age 72) Chicago, Illinois title / office secretary of state, United States (2009-2013) United States Senate, United States (2001-2009) first lady (1993-2001) political affiliation Democratic Party notable works “Hard Choices” “What Happened” “Living History” “It Takes a Village: And Other Lessons Children Teach Us” subjects of study child welfare health care role in United States presidential election of 2016 2012 Benghazi attacks awards and honors Grammy Award (1996) notable family members spouse Bill Clinton related facts and data Barack Obama - Facts View Facts & Data Load Next Page Hillary Clinton Additional Information More About Additional Reading External Websites CALS Encyclopedia of Arkansas - Biography of Hillary Diane Rodham Clinton National Women's History Museum - Biography of Hillary Rodham Clinton William J. Clinton Library & Museum - Biography of Hillary R. Clinton National First Ladies' Library - Biography of Hillary Clinton History, Art, and Archives - United States House of Representatives - Biography of Hillary Rodham Clinton Official Site of Hillary Rodham Clinton The White House - Biography of Hillary Rodham Clinton Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Hillary Clinton - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) Hillary Clinton - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!