https://www.britannica.com/biography/Bernie-Sanders
Bernie Sanders | Biography & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Bernie Sanders United States senator Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter Bernie Sanders United States senator Written By: Gregory Lewis McNamee Last Updated: Apr 8, 2020 See Article History Alternative Title: Bernard Sanders Bernie Sanders, byname of Bernard Sanders, (born September 8, 1941, Brooklyn, New York, U.S. ), American politician who was first elected to represent Vermont in the U.S. Senate in 2006 and took office the following year. Previously he served (1981–89) as the mayor of Burlington, Vermont, and as a member of the U.S. House of Representatives (1991–2007). Formally unaffiliated with any political party, he sought the Democratic nomination in the U.S. presidential elections of 2016 and 2020. Sanders, the son of Jewish parents of Polish descent, grew up in the Flatbush area of Brooklyn, New York. The family struggled financially, and income inequality would later become one of his key political issues. He attended Brooklyn College before earning a bachelor’s degree (1964) in political science from the University of Chicago. While in Chicago, he became involved in the civil rights movement, and in 1963 he participated in the March on Washington. After graduating, he lived on a kibbutz in Israel. Upon returning to the United States, Sanders moved to Vermont, participating in the communal back-to-the-land movement and working as a union carpenter and freelance journalist. He also became active in the anti-Vietnam War movement, which drew him into electoral politics. Running as an Independent, he made several unsuccessful bids for governor of Vermont (1972, 1976, and 1986) and the U.S. Senate (1972 and 1974). In 1981 he ran for the mayorship of Burlington, where he had settled. He won by a handful of votes. Soon thereafter Sanders (who had a son from a previous relationship) met Jane O’Meara Driscoll, who had three children from a prior marriage; after a seven-year courtship, the couple married. In 1988 Sanders ran for the U.S. House of Representatives but lost. Two years later, however, he was elected to the body. After taking office in 1991, Sanders, a self-described democratic socialist, caucused with the Democrats. Known for his liberal stance, he founded (1991) the Congressional Progressive Caucus. A reliable opponent of Pres. George W. Bush’s administration and the Republican Party, he voted against the Iraq War and distinguished himself in particular for his opposition to tax cuts benefiting wealthy individuals and corporations and to cuts in spending for social welfare programs. He was reelected seven times, usually by wide margins. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today In 2006 Sanders ran for the U.S. Senate and easily won. He took office the following year and subsequently continued his campaign for tax reform. In 2010 he held the floor for nearly nine hours in a filibuster against the extension of the Bush tax cuts. His populist speech was published as The Speech: A Historic Filibuster on Corporate Greed and the Decline of Our Middle Class (2011). He was also a vocal opponent of the shutdown of the federal government of 2013, which he attributed to the undue influence of big-money interests in the Republican Party. Apart from tax and social-welfare matters, Sanders sponsored bills and amendments that mostly concerned climate change, veterans’ affairs, and renewable energy. Bernie SandersU.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders (right) and U.S. Rep. Brad Sherman at a news conference about big banks, 2013.Mark Wilson— Getty Image News/Thinkstock In April 2015 Sanders announced that he was entering the U.S. presidential election race of 2016. His candidacy was initially dismissed by many pundits, as Hillary Clinton was widely perceived as the inevitable Democratic nominee. However, his populist policies—which some criticized as unrealistic—and enthusiasm proved popular with numerous voters, especially younger Democrats. Much of Sanders’s campaign platform focused on domestic issues. He supported universal health care, tax increases on the wealthy, and free tuition at public universities and colleges. He also backed campaign-finance reform and proposed stricter regulations on Wall Street. As the primary election season began in February 2016, the race between Sanders and Clinton was surprisingly close. However, by the following month, he trailed far behind Clinton in delegates, though he maintained a strong—and highly enthusiastic—voter base. In July Sanders officially endorsed Clinton, who had claimed the party’s nomination the previous month. After the presidential election—which Clinton lost to Republican Donald Trump—Sanders published Our Revolution: A Future to Believe In (2016). Sanders remained an influential force within progressive politics, and he was considered to have played a key role in moving the policies of the Democratic Party to the left. Amid speculation that he would launch a second bid for the presidency, reports surfaced of sexism and pay disparity in Sanders’s 2016 campaign. In January 2019 he publicly apologized and promised to “do better” if he were to run again. The following month Sanders announced that he was running for president. Sanders quickly became a frontrunner, but his progressive agenda raised questions about his electability in a general election. The more moderate wing of the Democratic Party grew increasingly worried, especially after Sanders’s impressive showings in the early primaries and caucuses. However, a resounding victory by Joe Biden in South Carolina in late February 2020 completely transformed the race. Biden, who was less progressive than Sanders, soon took a commanding lead in delegates, and Sanders’s attempt to regain momentum was hindered by the coronavirus pandemic, which caused a number of contests to be postponed and prevented in-person rallies. In April Sanders suspended his campaign. Gregory Lewis McNamee The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Vermont: Modern period representative, Bernie Sanders, a self-proclaimed democratic socialist. Sanders was the first independent to serve in the U.S. House of Representatives in 40 years, and he remained an independent when he ran for, and won, a Senate seat in 2006. Former governor Howard Dean ran for U.S.… United States Presidential Election of 2016: Background Bernie Sanders, a self-proclaimed Democratic Socialist. He campaigned on reducing economic inequality, opposing trade agreements, easing student debt, and cracking down on Wall Street interests, a significant source of Clinton support. Sanders, who energized both young and grassroots voters, stayed in the race until the… Hillary Clinton: Secretary of state and 2016 presidential candidate …faced an unexpected challenge from Bernie Sanders, a senator who was a self-described “democratic socialist.” Clinton, seen as a political insider, initially struggled to counter Sanders’s populist policies, which she criticized as unrealistic. Instead, she advocated a “sensible agenda,” which was based on traditional Democratic goals, notably tax increases on… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Bernie Sanders Quick Facts View Media Page born September 8, 1941 (age 78) New York City, New York title / office United States Senate, United States (2007-) House of Representatives, United States (1991-2007) political affiliation Democratic Party Independent role in United States presidential election of 2016 related facts and data Hillary Clinton - Facts Bernie Sanders Additional Information More About External Websites Official Site of Bernie Sanders, U.S Senator for Vermont Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Bernie Sanders - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!