https://www.britannica.com/biography/John-Kasich
John Kasich | Biography, Politics, & Facts | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 John Kasich American politician Article Media Info Print Cite Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Select feedback type: Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. Join Britannica's Publishing Partner Program and our community of experts to gain a global audience for your work! Share SHARE Facebook Twitter John Kasich American politician Written By: Robert Lewis See Article History Alternative Title: John Richard Kasich John Kasich, in full John Richard Kasich, (born May 13, 1952, McKees Rocks, Pennsylvania, U.S.), American Republican politician who served as a representative from Ohio in the U.S. House of Representatives (1983–2001) and as governor of Ohio (2011–19). In 2000 and 2016 he was an unsuccessful candidate for the Republican U.S. presidential nomination. Kasich, whose paternal grandfather was a Czech immigrant to the United States, was the son of two postal workers. He enrolled in the Ohio State University in 1970, and while still a freshman he wrote a letter that got him a meeting with U.S. Pres. Richard Nixon. He graduated in 1974 with a B.A. in political science. Kasich served Ohio state senator Donald E. Lukens as an administrative assistant from 1975 to 1977. In 1978 he won election to the state senate himself, defeating an incumbent Democrat and becoming, at age 26, the youngest person ever elected to that body up to that time. He began a four-year term in 1979. In 1982 he again defeated an incumbent Democrat to win a seat in the U.S. House of Representatives. As a Republican member of Congress for nine two-year terms (1983–2001), Kasich became known for his commitment to a balanced budget and reduced government spending. His opposition to military programs he considered wasteful—such as the B-2 “stealth” bomber—sometimes put him at odds with his own party. Starting in 1989, he prepared his own alternative government budgets and submitted them to the House. After the 1994 election, in which Republicans took majority control of the House, he became chairman of the Committee on the Budget. In February 1999 Kasich entered the 2000 U.S. presidential race but withdrew five months later. He did not run for reelection to the House in 2000. Get exclusive access to content from our 1768 First Edition with your subscription. Subscribe today While out of public office, Kasich supported himself by working in the Columbus, Ohio, branch of the investment firm Lehman Brothers. His employment lasted from 2001 until 2008, when the firm collapsed in the midst of a worldwide financial crisis. Meanwhile he kept himself in the public eye as host of Heartland with John Kasich (2001–07), a political commentary program on the Fox News Channel. Unusually for a network product, Heartland originated in Columbus. In 2010 Kasich was elected governor of Ohio, once again defeating an incumbent Democrat. After taking office the following year, he quickly made his mark when he signed a law restricting collective bargaining rights of government workers. The law was repealed by referendum in 2011. Later in his term, he broke with Republican orthodoxy when he accepted U.S. Pres. Barack Obama’s expansion of Medicaid coverage for low-income persons under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Unlike many Republicans, he acknowledged a human component in climate change and opposed a constitutional amendment to ban same-sex marriage. His positions generally found favour with Ohio voters. Claiming credit for tax cuts and budget surpluses, he won reelection in 2014 with nearly 64 percent of the votes. This victory set the stage for a presidential bid that began in July 2015. Kasich campaigned as a pragmatist and became a vocal critic of Donald Trump, a political outsider who emerged as the party’s front-runner. Facing Republican voters who were largely rejecting the traditional party establishment, Kasich won only his home state’s primary. However, he outlasted all of Trump’s other Republican competitors before suspending his campaign on May 4, 2016. In Two Paths: America Divided or United (2017), Kasich offered his thoughts on the presidential race, which was won by Trump. Barred from seeking a third term as governor, Kasich left office in early 2019. Later that year he published It’s Up to Us: Ten Little Ways We Can Bring About Big Change. Robert Lewis Learn More in these related Britannica articles: Republican Party Republican Party, in the United States, one of the two major political parties, the other being the Democratic Party. During the 19th century the Republican Party stood against the extension of slavery to the country’s new territories and, ultimately, for slavery’s complete abolition. During the… House of Representatives House of Representatives, one of the two houses of the bicameral United States Congress, established in 1789 by the Constitution of the United States.… Ohio Ohio, constituent state of the United States of America, on the northeastern edge of the Midwest region. Lake Erie lies on the north, Pennsylvania on the east, West Virginia and Kentucky on the southeast and south, Indiana on the west, and Michigan on the northwest. Ohio ranks 34th in terms… History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. John Kasich Quick Facts born May 13, 1952 (age 67) McKees Rocks, Pennsylvania title / office governor, Ohio (2011-2019) House of Representatives, United States (1983-2001) political affiliation Republican Party role in United States presidential election of 2016 John Kasich Additional Information External Websites Westerville Public Library - Biography of John Kasich Jewish Virtual Library - Biography of John Kasich Article History Article Contributors Load Next Article Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!