https://www.britannica.com/editor/Amy-Tikkanen/6393
Amy Tikkanen | Britannica
Search Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Login Subscribe Now Categories Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Features Demystified #WTFact Lists 100 Women Saving Earth SpaceNext 50 Companions Spotlight Image Galleries Videos Science Technology Health & Medicine Sports & Recreation Geography & Travel World History Philosophy & Religion Lifestyles & Social Issues Politics, Law & Government Entertainment & Pop Culture Visual Arts Literature Britannica Classics Check out these retro videos from Encyclopedia Britannica’s archives. Britannica Explains In these videos, Britannica explains a variety of topics and answers frequently asked questions. This Week in History In these videos, find out what happened this week (or any week!) in history. Demystified Videos In Demystified, Britannica has all the answers to your burning questions. #WTFact Videos In #WTFact Britannica shares some of the most bizarre facts we can find. Biographies On This Day Quizzes COVID-19 COVID-19 Amy Tikkanen Encyclopædia Britannica Editor BIOGRAPHY Amy Tikkanen is the general corrections manager, handling a wide range of topics that include Hollywood, politics, books, and anything related to the Titanic. She has worked at Britannica for more than two decades. Primary Contributions (178) Articles Quizzes Lists Stories Jonathan Toews Jonathan Toews, Canadian professional ice hockey player who, with the Chicago Blackhawks of the National Hockey League (NHL), won three Stanley Cup championships (2010, 2013, and 2015). In 2005 Toews enrolled at the University of North Dakota, where he played centre on the school’s hockey team. He… READ MORE Nicklas Lidstrom Abdalá Bucaram Jessica Lange Maria Sharapova Shonda Rhimes Thomas Andrews Edward J. Smith Betty White Virginia Tech shooting Nancy Meyers Robert Durst Hillsborough disaster Kim Kardashian Helen Hunt James Garner Maersk Alabama hijacking Alec Baldwin Ingvar Kamprad Rita Moreno Jennifer Capriati Sarah Jessica Parker Hugh Glass Mary Ann Cotton Reese Witherspoon Reince Priebus Javier Bardem Kurt Russell Isabelle Huppert Dennis Rader Tom Steyer Loch Ness monster George Miller Pat Summitt Tim Horton Edwin Bustillos García David S. McKay Gary Ridgway Griselda Blanco Jeb Bush Nikki Haley Enola Gay Regis Philbin US Airways flight 1549 Great Molasses Flood Lily Tomlin Costa Concordia disaster Leon Czolgosz Pablo Escobar Gary Johnson Jack Ruby Dennis Hastert Katherine Heigl Colin Firth J. Bruce Ismay Bob Barker Krampus Arundhati Roy Steve Carell Scott Walker Tsar Bomba Danny Boyle Eva Ekeblad Titanic Uruguayan Air Force flight 571 Scotty Bowman Laurent Fignon Swissair flight 111 I Have a Dream Soldier Field Hu Jia Steven Avery Mike Pence Jane Marcet Mehmet Oz Suze Orman Leonid Yakovlevich Arkayev Kathryn Bigelow Sinaloa cartel Mark David Chapman Steve Yzerman Zhang Yimou Anita Hill MS St. Louis Banaue rice terraces Marine One Essex Edmund Fitzgerald National Register of Historic Places Wrigley Field University of Phoenix Biltmore Estate USS Arizona Great Sphinx of Giza Mary Read Mary Rose Fenway Park The Diary of a Young Girl Mary Celeste San Quentin State Prison Hearst Castle Olympic Britannic Carpathia Andrea Doria The Sinking of the Titanic: The 100th Anniversary Books for Dummies Make Smart Sense View All U.S. Presidential Firsts Republican or Democrat? Famous Astronauts and Cosmonauts Leonardo DiCaprio Abraham Lincoln American Civil War: Who Won Which Battles? American Reality TV Scary Movie Quiz You Can’t Handle the Truth: Famous Movie Quotes Fifty Shades of Grey Cary Grant Quiz To Kill a Mockingbird U.S. Navy SEAL Quiz Matthew McConaughey Quiz The Titanic Paul Newman Quiz American Sports Nicknames View All Timeline of the September 11 Attacks 10 Democrats Who Made History New Seven Wonders of the World 10 Famous Clowns: From Comical to Creepy 5 Famous Border Walls 8 Interesting Facts About Rats Pablo Escobar: 8 Interesting Facts About the King of Cocaine 5 Unusual Olympic Sports 8 Olympic Cheating Scandals The Dope on Dope: 8 Facts About Marijuana 10 Best Hockey Players of All Time Secret Service Code Names of 10 U.S. Presidents Working Like a Dog: 7 Animals with Jobs 12 Peculiar Phobias 8 Famous Duels and 1 Almost Duel 7 Nobel Prize Scandals 8 Animals That Suck (Blood) 7 Unsportsmanlike Sportsmen 5 Famous Battle-Axes 8 of the Best Books Over 900 Pages View All A Brief (and Fascinating) History of Money Why Do Horses Sleep Standing Up? Why Are People Afraid of Clowns? Cannibalism: Cultures, Cures, Cuisine, and Calories The Most Stolen Work of Art Rest in Peace? Not for These 7 Unlucky Individuals Why Is Marijuana Illegal in the U.S.? Why Does the New Year Start on January 1? How Did the Tradition of Christmas Trees Start? Which Is Correct: Hanukkah or Chanukah? The Surprisingly Disorderly History of the U.S. Presidential Succession Order Timeline of the Titanic’s Final Hours Vikings Helped Cats Conquer the World How Long Is the Amazon River? Who Becomes President After the President and Vice President? Happy Halloween In Memoriam, 2016 Gold Fever Snuffing Out Smoking Voting in the U.S.A. Happy 100th Birthday, National Park Service! Rio Recap Olympics: Football (Soccer) Harry Potter and the Much-Anticipated Return What’s the Difference Between Bison and Buffalo? The Unsinkable Titanic 100th Anniversary of the PGA’s Founding What’s the Difference Between Alligators and Crocodiles? The 24 Days of College Football Bowls Feliz Día de los Muertos The 600th Anniversary of the Battle of Agincourt 2015 Nobel Prizes Announced This Week 100th Anniversary of the Eastland Disaster Remembering the Lusitania View All Inspire your inbox – Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers. Enter your email By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Pinterest Newsletters About Us & Legal Info Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use ©2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Your preference has been recorded close Check out Britannica's new site for parents!