https://parents.britannica.com/
Britannica Parenting | Expert Advice for Families
Skip to content Get Our Free Newsletter Search Close Curious Learners Tech Savvy Family Raising a Human Power of Play How Your Child Grows Menu Curious Learners Editors Welcome Tech Savvy Family Our Team Raising a Human Power of Play Britannica Early Learning Home Podcast How Your Child Grows Contact Us “Help! My Child Is Constantly Asking Me for Tech Support!” Struggling to help your child navigate online learning? Britannica experts offer tips and advice for troubleshooting tech issues and helping your child learn to solve problems independently. Read More Curious Learners More Helping Letters: Fresh Ideas for Caring Families Britannica for Parents offers ideas for helping children write friendly letters to people who are alone and isolated during the COVID-19 pandemic. Read More Core Parenting Library Screenwise: An Essential Resource for Parents Our Britannica experts recommend the book Screenwise: Helping Kids Thrive (and Survive) in Their Digital World by Devorah Heitner as an essential resource for navigating the digital landscape. Read More Curious Learners Your Family’s Guide to Media Literacy Helping children safely navigate the Internet is just one part of developing media literacy. Teaching children to be tech-savvy consumers of media, from TV shows to viral videos, starts with preschoolers and continues through adulthood. Read More The Truth about Screen Time and Young Children Dire warnings about the harmful effects of screen time are everywhere, but so are screens! Find out what the experts say about the appropriate role of screens in early childhood. Read More Curious Learners Screenwise: An Essential Resource for Parents Our Britannica experts recommend the book Screenwise: Helping Kids Thrive (and Survive) in Their Digital World by Devorah Heitner as an essential resource for navigating the digital landscape. Read More Your Family’s Guide to Media Literacy Helping children safely navigate the Internet is just one part of developing media literacy. Teaching children to be tech-savvy consumers of media, from TV shows to viral videos, starts with preschoolers and continues through adulthood. Read More Star Watching: An Awe-Inspiring Family Activity When schools are closed and play dates are cancelled, the sky is still open. Read More Tech Savvy Families Screenwise: An Essential Resource for Parents Our Britannica experts recommend the book Screenwise: Helping Kids Thrive (and Survive) in Their Digital World by Devorah Heitner as an essential resource for navigating the digital landscape. Read More Your Family’s Guide to Media Literacy Helping children safely navigate the Internet is just one part of developing media literacy. Teaching children to be tech-savvy consumers of media, from TV shows to viral videos, starts with preschoolers and continues through adulthood. Read More Choosing Apps for Children? Questions to Consider Tech expert Amanda Armstrong guides parents in selecting child-friendly apps for your family. Read More Raising a Human “Help! My Child Is Constantly Asking Me for Tech Support!” Struggling to help your child navigate online learning? Britannica experts offer tips and advice for troubleshooting tech issues and helping your child learn to solve problems independently. Read More More Helping Letters: Fresh Ideas for Caring Families Britannica for Parents offers ideas for helping children write friendly letters to people who are alone and isolated during the COVID-19 pandemic. Read More Power of Play Ask an Expert: Why Do Children Love Stuffed Animals? Special cuddle toys (also known as a “lovey,” a “stuffie,” or, in some circles, a “boopie”) play an important role in a child’s world. Early Read More Toys that Teach: Wooden Blocks Looking for a perfect toy that offers hours of creative play? Try wooden blocks! No other toys offers such a wide range of benefits, from Read More Worth the Mess: Marble Painting Have you lost your marbles? Encourage your kids to get messy and learn about science through this fun art project! This messy motion art project Read More Screen-Free Fun on the Go Stuck in traffic on the way to school? Keeping your children happy in the car is a never-ending challenge. A screen-free option: Car seat comedy Read More How We Choose Our Photos by Ann Gadzikowski At Britannica for Parents, we strive to publish articles, video, and images that represent all kinds of families. Here we share some of our initial conversations, challenges, and goals around diversity and inclusion. Read More Introducing Britannica Parenting A resource for today's parents to raise curious learners. Britannica for Parents Newsletter: Tech Savvy Family Make informed decisions about the role of technology in the life of your family with the help of our free weekly newsletter. Sign Up Today Facebook Twitter Pinterest Instagram Learning Stages How Your Child Grows Curious Learners Tech Savvy Family Raising a Human Power of Play Menu How Your Child Grows Curious Learners Tech Savvy Family Raising a Human Power of Play ABOUT US Editor’s Welcome Our Team Britannica Early Learning Contact Us Privacy Notice California Explicit Notice Terms of Use Menu Editor’s Welcome Our Team Britannica Early Learning Contact Us Privacy Notice California Explicit Notice Terms of Use Copyright © 2020 Britannica Parents. All Rights Reserved. Do Not Sell My Info How Your Child Grows Curious Learners Tech Savvy Family Raising a Human Power of Play Close GET BRITANNICA PARENTS DELIVERED Information, resources, and advice from the early learning experts at Britannica, delivered straight to your inbox! GET BRITANNICA PARENTS DELIVERED Information, resources, and advice from the early learning experts at Britannica, delivered straight to your inbox!