https://corporate.britannica.com
Welcome to Britannica - Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Corporate Site
250th Anniversary Timeline Our Initiatives Saving Earth 2019 SpaceNext50-Center Who We Serve Our Brands Encyclopædia Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Kids Britannica Digital Learning Merriam-Webster Angie & Tony Melingo Britannica Knowledge Systems Our Partners & Experts Become a Partner or Expert About Us Our Team Press News Contact Us Advertise About Us Our Team Press News Contact Us Advertise 250th Anniversary Timeline Our Initiatives Saving Earth 2019 SpaceNext50-Center Who We Serve Our Brands Encyclopædia Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Kids Britannica Digital Learning Merriam-Webster Angie & Tony Melingo Britannica Knowledge Systems Our Partners & Experts Become a Partner or Expert Search Close Search Search: Submit Menu We innovate how the world learns through credible and memorable experiences We are Britannica Group, Inc, the world-wide leader at the forefront of the information revolution for 250 years. We have empowered the way the world teaches and learns, and we continue to pave the way in reimagining discovery and inquiry. Inspiring curiosity and instilling the joy of learning is how Britannica builds the world’s future leaders. Discover how we’re championing truth Activities Corner Britannica Kids has just launched a great new addition to the site, Activities Corner. This new feature will provide parents and children resources for skill development activities, projects, crafts, and games activities. Watch here YouTube has named Britannica a premier partner to combat misinformation and conspiracy theories on their channel. See example Guardians of History™ One of the first voice-driven games that blends premium audio, engaging choice-driven gameplay, and educational content in one package. Learn More See what we’re up to Our Brands Trust your knowledge with authoritative brands We are built from the rich knowledge of renowned experts and forward-thinkers from around the globe. We continue to be the prevailing trusted source for factual information, anchored in authority, depth, and relevancy. Serving 140M+ students Trusted in 80+ countries 1,000 categories of content Access to 800K words Students & Families College Students Educators & Administrators Lifelong Learners Businesses & Governments The people we serve is a testament to how we’ve evolved The Britannica Group serves students, families, scholars, community members, and educators around the world. While we may have originated in print, we have evolved into a powerhouse, multimedia educational brand to suit the evolving needs of lifelong learners today. Who We Serve Our biggest story is here: Our 250th-year celebration For 250 years Encyclopædia Britannica has been the definitive storyteller. Throughout generations, we’ve been documenting human potential through every discovery and innovation. Join us as we honor the proud history that has shaped us, and celebrate the future that lies ahead of us. We welcome lifelong learners and partners around the globe as we take our first steps toward the next 250 years. Learn More Our Sites Britannica.com Britannica Kids School & Library Products Lumielabs Merriam-Webster Britannica Store (Consumers) Britannica Store (Institutions) Advocacy for Animals International Australia Brazil China Japan Latin America United Kingdom Mobile iPhone App iPad App Britannica Kids Apps About Company Our Team Contact Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Newsletters Partner with Us Experts Advertise Privacy Policy Terms of Use Copyright 2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Corporate Site. All rights reserved.