https://corporate.britannica.com/publishing-partner-program/
Britannica Knowledge Experts - Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Corporate Site
250th Anniversary Timeline Our Initiatives Saving Earth 2019 SpaceNext50-Center Who We Serve Our Brands Encyclopædia Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Kids Britannica Digital Learning Merriam-Webster Angie & Tony Melingo Britannica Knowledge Systems Our Partners & Experts Become a Partner or Expert About Us Our Team Press News Contact Us Advertise About Us Our Team Press News Contact Us Advertise 250th Anniversary Timeline Our Initiatives Saving Earth 2019 SpaceNext50-Center Who We Serve Our Brands Encyclopædia Britannica Encyclopædia Britannica Kids Britannica Digital Learning Merriam-Webster Angie & Tony Melingo Britannica Knowledge Systems Our Partners & Experts Become a Partner or Expert Search Close Search Search: Submit Menu A Global Audience. A Network of Experts and Partners Introducing Britannica Knowledge Experts Since 1768, Encyclopædia Britannica has worked with the world’s premier partner institutions and experts – from public servants, social leaders, and heads of state to professional athletes, pioneering artists, Nobel Prize winners, scholars and independent writers, and graduate students, as well as niche craftsmen, hobbyists, and specialists of all kinds. These assorted experts have contributed to Britannica’s expanding knowledge footprint, all with the goal of helping the world’s curious-minded seek and find information with confidence. We’re proud of our publishing partners and are thrilled to expand our program to introduce our new Britannica Knowledge Experts (BKE) network. BKE is integral to the mission of Britannica and to supporting the needs of our growing audience around the world. We serve the curious We serve readers whose passions drive them to seek new information they can trust, from an authority they can rely on. We serve fact-seekers, answer-seekers, and critical thinkers who want to go beyond a first-page search listing. We serve educators globally who teach the future generation of leaders and can do so through the tools and platform we provide them. We work with powerful partners American Chemical Society A force for good The world’s largest scientific society and one of the leading sources of authoritative scientific information. learn more University of California, Berkeley The No. 1-ranked public university in the world. Sharing their latest research with Britannica via video. learn more Society for Military History A revered international association of the foremost scholars, writers, and independent researchers working in the field of military history today. learn more Project Time-Lapse: Explore the World in Minutes Explore the world and its stunning geography in minutes through the eyes and creative work of photographers from every continent. explore View all Partners We learn from leading voices The eminent experts who contribute to Britannica products today extend the company’s long tradition, begun in 1768, of working with the world’s best and brightest. This stellar list of contributors includes more than a hundred Nobel laureates, five presidents of the United States, countless Pulitzer Prize winners, and many others of international renown. Trailblazing Groundbreaking Impactful Artful Madeleine Albright Sir Alexander Fleming John Kennedy Martin Scorsese Archbishop Desmond Tutu Winner of the 1984 Nobel Peace Prize Truth and Reconciliation Commission, South Africa Bill Clinton Former U.S. president Dayton Accords Simon Baron Cohen of Cambridge University Noted autism expert The Autism Spectrum Jody Williams Nobel laureate and activist against landmines Toward a Land Mine-Free World Joseph Ellis Historian and Pulitzer Prize winner Founding Fathers Jimmy Carter Former U.S. President Camp David Accords Betty Boyd Caroli Historian and biographer of U.S. first ladies First lady Gunther Schuller Noted musician and jazz historian Jazz Tony Hawk Champion skateboarder Skateboarding Steven Chu Former U.S. secretary of energy and Nobel laureate in physics Spectroscopy Lee Iacocca Former Chrysler chairman Walter P. Chrysler Sean Wilentz Columbia University historian John McCain Christina Romer Economist and former head of the president’s council of economic advisors Great Depression Andrew Soltis Chess grandmaster and writer Chess Karl Deisseroth Revolutionary bioengineer Optogenetics Kareem Abdul-Jabbar Hall of Fame basketball player and writer New York Rens Past contributors included Albert Einstein, Sigmund Freud, Marie Curie, Leon Trotsky, Harry Houdini, George Bernard Shaw, Bertrand Russell, and many, many others. And we're looking for new voices. The world is an expansive place with limitless topics for us to tackle together. We know there’s more to explore, more to uncover, more of our exciting work yet to be imagined. And that’s where you come in. Get to know the editorial team spearheading the Britannica Knowledge Network and learn more about how you can get involved. Become a contributor J.E. Luebering is executive director of the Core Editorial Group at Britannica. He has worked at Britannica since 2004 and holds degrees in literature from Kenyon College and the University of Chicago. He lives in Chicago. Contact him at jluebering@eb.com J.E Luebering Ted is a 20-year veteran of Britannica who cultivates brand and business opportunities and contributes to the company’s public relations activities. Contact him at TPappas@eb.com Theodore Pappas Our Sites Britannica.com Britannica Kids School & Library Products Lumielabs Merriam-Webster Britannica Store (Consumers) Britannica Store (Institutions) Advocacy for Animals International Australia Brazil China Japan Latin America United Kingdom Mobile iPhone App iPad App Britannica Kids Apps About Company Our Team Contact Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Newsletters Partner with Us Experts Advertise Privacy Policy Terms of Use Copyright 2020 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Corporate Site. All rights reserved.