https://www.history.com/schedule
HISTORY TV Schedule | HISTORY
-->Sign Out Skip to content ShowsShows This Day In HistoryThis Day In History ScheduleSchedule TopicsTopics StoriesStories Visit Sign Out Your Profile Your Profile Profile Sign Out Your Profile Your Profile Profile Sign Out HISTORY ShowsShows This Day In HistoryThis Day In History ScheduleSchedule TopicsTopics StoriesStories VideosVideos Speeches & AudioSpeeches & Audio HISTORY VaultHISTORY Vault ShopShop Link HISTORY on facebook Link HISTORY on twitter Link HISTORY on youtube Link HISTORY on instagram Email Updates Email Updates Schedule history espanol military XXXXXX XXXXXX XXXXXX XXXXXX XXXXXX XXXXXX XXXXXX ET ET CT MT PT AD ON NOW12:03 am The Curse of Oak Island: Drilling Down Watch Online Now The Shakespeare ConnectionNew S7 | E4 The Shakespeare Connection New tv-pg Watch Online Now Television icon William Shatner explores the possibility that the Oak Island treasure might not be one of gold and jewels, but instead, of priceless paper. Visit Show Site Watch Online now ON NOW1:03 am The Curse of Oak Island Watch Online Now TimelineNew S7 | E23 Timeline New tv-pg Watch Online Now It's the end of drilling season on Oak Island and after a year that saw the fellowship make a number of groundbreaking discoveries in their quest to solve a 225-year-old treasure mystery, the team is determined not to leave the island without making at least one more historic breakthrough. Visit Show Site Watch Online now ON NOW2:06 am Lost Gold of World War II Watch Online Now A Dying DeclarationNew S2 | E1 A Dying Declaration New tv-pg Watch Online Now American treasure hunter John Casey returns to the Philippines with a new team and new technology, in a continued effort to solve one of the greatest mysteries of World War II. It's all hands on deck, when an advanced satellite scan of the mountain reveals massive metal deposits underground. Based on these results, the team targets three sites believed to be the access points to Yamashita's gold: a waterfall, a crater known as 'Breach 6', and a camouflaged tunnel they uncovered last year. Visit Show Site Watch Online now ON NOW3:06 am Lost Gold of World War II Watch Online Now A Dying DeclarationNew S2 | E1 A Dying Declaration New tv-pg Watch Online Now American treasure hunter John Casey returns to the Philippines with a new team and new technology, in a continued effort to solve one of the greatest mysteries of World War II. It's all hands on deck, when an advanced satellite scan of the mountain reveals massive metal deposits underground. Based on these results, the team targets three sites believed to be the access points to Yamashita's gold: a waterfall, a crater known as 'Breach 6', and a camouflaged tunnel they uncovered last year. Visit Show Site Watch Online now ON NOW4:02 am ON NOW4:30 am ON NOW5:00 am ON NOW5:30 am ON NOW6:00 am ON NOW6:30 am ON NOW7:00 am Forged in Fire Watch Online Now Tournament Round 1 S5 | E30 Tournament Round 1 tv-pg Watch Online Now In the first ever Forged in Fire Tournament, four different classes of metalsmithing professionals will compete over five weeks for the chance to win the biggest Forged in Fire prize ever--$50,000. In this first week, four farriers are tasked with creating a San Mai blade from familiar tools: horseshoes and hoof rasps. After a strenuous round of testing, the remaining two farriers return to their home forges to create a famed weapon of the English Civil War: the Mortuary Sword. The winner will return in the final Tournament of Champions for a chance to prevail over the other metalsmithing classes and win the $50,000 grand prize. Visit Show Site Watch Online now ON NOW8:00 am Forged in Fire Watch Online Now Tournament Round 2 S5 | E31 Tournament Round 2 tv-pg Watch Online Now In Round Two of the first ever Forged in Fire Invitational Tournament, four armorers must forge a Damascus blade out of something familiar: plate armor. Two exhausting rounds of failed forge welds find the chink in two bladesmiths' armor, and send them packing. The remaining two armorers head back to their home forges to craft an exotic hybrid of pain and protection: the Hooded Katar. Which smith will earn the spot at the armorer's anvil, and the chance at the biggest Forged in Fire purse ever -- $50,000? Visit Show Site Watch Online now ON NOW9:00 am Forged in Fire Watch Online Now Tournament Round 3 S5 | E32 Tournament Round 3 tv-pg Watch Online Now In Round Three of the first ever Forged in Fire Invitational Tournament, four blacksmiths must forge a signature Damascus blade using steel they must harvest from a stockpile of varied tools. In an ultimate test of their blade-making skills, these smiths persevere through missteps that chisel away at their resolve. The smiths that survive two brutal rounds of testing return to their home forges to recreate a multipurpose Medieval weapon of war - the Knightly Poleaxe. Which smith will advance to the coveted spot at the blacksmith's anvil, and earn the chance to be crowned Tournament Champion and win the biggest Forged in Fire prize ever: $50,000? Visit Show Site Watch Online now ON NOW10:00 am Forged in Fire Watch Online Now Tournament Round 4 S5 | E33 Tournament Round 4 tv-pg Watch Online Now In the fourth round of the Forged in Fire Invitational Tournament, four modern metal workers must harvest materials from a metal sculpture to forge a needle point Damascus blade. Will they find allies in these alloys, or will someone experience a metal meltdown? When time's up, an especially harsh round of testing leaves only two metal workers standing. These smiths return to their own home forges to recreate an extravagant sword from the elite classes of Renaissance Europe: the duel-ready Flamberge Rapier. Which smith will earn the spot at the metal worker's anvil, and the chance to win $50,000 and be crowned Tournament Champion? Visit Show Site Watch Online now ON NOW11:00 am Forged in Fire Watch Online Now Tournament Finals S5 | E34 Tournament Finals tv-pg Watch Online Now In the final round of the Invitational Tournament, our winning Farrier, Armorer, Blacksmith and Modern Metal Worker face off to forge the longest round one weapon in Forged in Fire history: the Wakizashi. The smiths race to produce a damascus blade in three hours and must rely on their expertise to bring them one step closer to victory. The tough competition leaves no room for error. After a meticulous round of tests, only two smiths remain and return to their home forges to recreate one of the largest Japanese swords, the Nodachi. Which bladesmith will make their class proud, and take home the title of Forged in Fire Tournament Champion along with the biggest purse ever--$50,000? Visit Show Site Watch Online now ON NOW12:00 pm Forged in Fire Watch Online Now Crusader Sword S1 | E5 Crusader Sword tv-pg Watch Online Now The forge heats up as our four bladesmiths struggle create a special Japanese hardening technique on their signature blades. After a difficult first round of testing, the remaining two bladesmiths head home with just five days to forge the legendary Crusader Sword. With their battle-ready weapons in hand, they're put through a brutal round of medieval testing; but only one can emerge victorious and be crown the Forged in Fire Champion. Visit Show Site Watch Online now ON NOW1:00 pm Forged in Fire Watch Online Now Butterfly Swords S3 | E3 Butterfly Swords tv-pg Watch Online Now Four new contestants must choose wisely as they try to craft a blade of their signature style from a pile of tools, both old and new. Then the stakes are doubled when, for the first time ever, they must forge not one, but two swords in the final round. Crafting Chinese Butterfly Swords, our final two bladesmiths face twice the work, and twice the pressure, in their attempt to claim the title of Forged in Fire champion. Visit Show Site Watch Online now ON NOW2:00 pm Forged in Fire Watch Online Now The Pata S3 | E11 The Pata tv-pg Watch Online Now Over the course of three seasons, 26 bladesmiths have been crowned Forged in Fire champion. Tonight, prior winners return to prove who among them is the best of the best by forging a blade using canoe damascus. After two high octane rounds of competition, the two remaining champions will move to the final round where they must create a weapon known for its unique mechanics and deadly double-edged blade--the Pata. With $10,000 and their reputation on the line, which smith will survive the judges' brutal testing to once again be crowned Forged in Fire champion? Visit Show Site Watch Online now ON NOW3:00 pm Forged in Fire Watch Online Now The Lion Spear S5 | E14 The Lion Spear tv-pg Watch Online Now Four bladesmiths must figure out how to hack it when they are tasked with crafting a hatchet from pieces of odd shaped steel. After several forging failures, parameter mishaps, and intense conditions -- only two smiths head back to their home forges where they must recreate the deadly Maasai Lion Spear. Who will come out roaring and leave with $10,000 and the pride of becoming a Forged in Fire Champion? Visit Show Site Watch Online now ON NOW4:00 pm Forged in Fire Watch Online Now The Sengese S5 | E25 The Sengese tv-pg Watch Online Now Four bladesmiths must forge a fully functional serrated knife using steel from hand scissors, or risk getting cut from the competition. Serrations prove to be more than just a bump in the road for the two smiths who don't make the cut. The remaining two competitors return to their home forges to create a unique and challenging weapon from history: the Sengese. Whose blade will be ahead of the curve, earning the smith $10,000 and the title of Forged in Fire Champion? Visit Show Site Watch Online now ON NOW5:00 pm Forged in Fire Watch Online Now Pioneer Sword S5 | E18 Pioneer Sword tv-pg Watch Online Now Four blade smiths are thrown into the fire when they must forge a multipurpose weapon from old rescue tools. Blades that can cut, pry and hammer are then put through a brutal round of testing. After narrowly escaping elimination, two smiths head back to their home forges to recreate a unique utilitarian tool--the Russian Pioneer sword. With $10,000 and the Forged in Fire title at stake, which competitor's skills will reign supreme? Visit Show Site Watch Online now ON NOW6:00 pm Forged in Fire Watch Online Now Revolutionary War Spontoon S7 | E10 Revolutionary War Spontoon tv-pg Watch Online Now Four smiths spring into action when they are tasked with creating signature blades from different sized springs. The smiths battle through two tough rounds, fighting through canisters and failing forge welds for an opportunity to leap forward in the competition. After a brutal testing bout, the two remaining smiths head home to recreate one of the most distinguishing weapons of the Revolutionary War: the Sergeant's Spontoon. Which smith will survive the battery of tests to earn the title of Forged in Fire champion and $10,000? Visit Show Site Watch Online now ON NOW7:00 pm Forged in Fire Watch Online Now First Responders Edition S7 | E25 First Responders Edition tv-pg Watch Online Now Four first responder bladesmiths are called into the forge to honor those who run toward danger while others run away. Tasked with forging tactical knives out of rescue tools, the smiths battle both the heat and the clock. Ultimately two smiths persevere and return home to recreate one of the most important tools in a firefighter's arsenal: the Halligan Bar. Which smith's Halligan will save the day, winning them $10,000 and the title of Forged in Fire Champion' Visit Show Site Watch Online now ON NOW8:00 pm Forged in Fire: Cutting Deeper Baby Boomer Vs Gen ZNew S5 | E0 Baby Boomer Vs Gen Z New tv-pg (Enhanced.) Baby Boomers and Gen Z-ers face off in an Old vs. New competition. After several intense rounds, two smiths head back to their home forges to recreate ancient China's Sword of Goujian, one of the most intact artifacts ever uncovered by archeologists. Which smith's sword is pristine enough to stand the test of time, earning the title of Forged in Fire Champion and $10,000' ON NOW9:00 pm Forged in Fire Watch Preview Now The NimchaNew S7 | E30 The Nimcha New tv-pg Watch Preview Now Four smiths are tasked with forging signature blades from scrap metal shavings. After two intense rounds, the remaining smiths head home to recreate the Nimcha, a sword traditionally made from recycled blades. Which smith will get scrappy to produce a weapon worthy of $10,000 and the title of Forged in Fire Champion' Visit Show Site Watch Preview now ON NOW10:03 pm Eating History Leave it to Beaver TailNew S1 | E9 Leave it to Beaver Tail New tv-pg Josh and Smokey sample three generations of America's favorite sandwich cookies to see how they've changed over the years. Then the boys open a box of over 30-year-old bat cereal from the Dark Knight. And they try a meal of river rodent, just like Lewis & Clark would've had during their quest. Visit Show Site ON NOW10:33 pm Eating History Watch Online Now Once You Pop S1 | E5 Once You Pop tv-pg Watch Online Now The boys crack open a 40-year-old can of iconic "chips". Then, they head to Michigan to meet a couple with a huge collection of memorabilia from one of America's biggest and most nostalgic brands. To wash it all down, they sip a soda that was one of the most famous flops of all time. Visit Show Site Watch Online now ON NOW11:03 pm Forged in Fire Watch Online Now Charlemagne's Sword S7 | E17 Charlemagne's Sword tv-pg Watch Online Now Four smiths crack open crucibles to reveal surprise metals they'll use to forge signature blades. After a tense, one smith is sent packing while the three remaining competitors are tasked with casting bronze guards. Only two survive and move on to their home forges to recreate the legendary sword of King Charlemagne: the Joyeuse. Which smith's sword will be fit for a king? Visit Show Site Watch Online now How can we improve this experience? Select a Category Website Suggestions Video Playback Issues TV Provider Sign In TV Programming Feedback Other A+E Networks Our Family of Brands HISTORY homepage History Education History Vault Mobile/Apps News Shop Share Your Opinion Follow HISTORY facebook opens in new window twitter opens in new window youtube opens in new window instagram opens in new window Biography Crime and Investigation History en Espanol LRWLRW Schedule Page Military History Ad Choices Advertise With Us Accessibility Support Copyright Policy Corporate Information Employment Opportunities FAQ/Contact Us Privacy Notice Cookie Notice Terms Of Use TV Parental Guidelines Do Not Sell My Personal Information Contact Us Copyright Policy Privacy Notice Cookie Notice Terms of Use Ad Choices Accessibility Support © 2020, A&E Television Networks, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Create a Profile to Add this show to your list! Get Started Already have a profile? Sign In