https://www.history.com/news
Stories - HISTORY
Shows This Day In History Schedule Topics Stories Ad Choices Advertise Closed Captioning Copyright Policy Corporate Information Employment Opportunities FAQ/Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use TV Parental Guidelines RSS Feeds Accessibility Support Privacy Settings Shows This Day In History Schedule Topics Stories Shows This Day In History Schedule Topics Stories How Pandemics Spurred Cities to Make More Green Space for People 20 hours ago How Nixon’s Invasion of Cambodia Triggered a Check on Presidential Power President Ulysses S. Grant: Known for Scandals, Overlooked for Achievements When WWI, Pandemic and Slump Ended, Americans Sprung Into the Roaring Twenties Subscribe for fascinating stories connecting the past to the present. SIGN UP How the Black Death Spread Along the Silk Road The Silk Road, a network of land and sea trade routes that connected China and the Far East with Europe from 130 B.C. to 1453 A.D., became a vital source for everything from fabric and leather goods to spices and precious stones. It connected communities and allowed them to share ...read more Apr 23, 2020 How the US Pulled Off Midterm Elections Amid the 1918 Flu Pandemic In the fall of 1918, the United States was approaching a midterm election like none other before. Not only were President Woodrow Wilson and his fellow Democrats trying to keep control of Congress during the home stretch of World War I—they were trying to do so in the middle of ...read more Apr 22, 2020 Talking to the Dead: How the 1918 Pandemic Spurred a Spiritualism Craze When the influenza pandemic hit the U.S. between 1918 and 1920, Americans wanted answers. Their questions weren’t limited to what caused the pandemic or might prevent the next one. They struggled with more eternal concerns, such as what happens to us after we die and whether it’s ...read more Apr 21, 2020 How the First Earth Day Was Borne From 1960s Counterculture During the 1960s, hundreds of thousands of young Americans rejected the stable, comfortable middle-class life their parents had built in the years after World War II, driven instead by a spirit of rebellion that would leave a lasting impact on the nation. But long hair and ...read more Apr 21, 2020 Photos: Our Changing View of Earth from Space The Apollo program transfixed the United States and the world in the 1960s for its heroic effort to fulfill the promise of President John F. Kennedy to go to the moon. But its most endearing legacy may have been, not visiting the barren world that is our planetary companion, but ...read more Apr 20, 2020 6 Legendary Lost Treasures of World War II War has always brought chaos, and with it an opportunity for pillage and plunder. This was especially true during World War II, when countless pieces of priceless art, artifacts and other treasure were destroyed and spirited away from both Europe and the Asia Pacific. Nazis, in ...read more Apr 17, 2020 The Black Death: A Timeline of the Gruesome Pandemic Nearly 700 years after the Black Death swept through Europe, it still haunts the world as the worst-case scenario for an epidemic. Called the Great Mortality as it caused its devastation, this second great pandemic of Bubonic Plague became known as the Black Death in the late ...read more Apr 16, 2020 When the Founding Fathers Settled States' vs. Federal Rights—And Saved the Nation When the 13 United States of America declared independence from the United Kingdom in 1776, the founders were attempting to break free from the tyranny of Britain’s top-down centralized government. But the first constitution the founders created, the Articles of Confederation, ...read more Apr 16, 2020 All the Ways We’ve Wiped: The History of Toilet Paper and What Came Before At the onset of the 2020 coronavirus pandemic, store shelves were quickly emptied of toilet paper, revealing the commodity’s prominent, yet unspoken role in modern-day society. Although humans have cleaned their bottoms for as long as they have walked the Earth, “three-ply” and ...read more Apr 15, 2020 When Did Americans Start Recycling? In the 1800s, there were no blue recycling bins, no sorting, no recycling trucks rumbling down the alley. Recycling as we know it didn’t exist. But people were way better at it. “People recycled far more than we do now,” says Susan Strasser, author of Waste and Want: A Social ...read more Apr 14, 2020 How Americans Have Voted Through History: From Voices to Screens Voting is the cornerstone of American democracy, but the United States Constitution doesn’t say exactly how Americans should cast their ballots in elections. Article 1, Section 4 simply states that it’s up to each state to determine “The Times, Places and Manner of holding ...read more Apr 13, 2020 The Shroud of Turin: 7 Intriguing Facts The Shroud of Turin is a 14-foot linen cloth bearing an image of a crucified man that has become a popular Catholic icon. For some, it is the authentic burial shroud of Jesus Christ. For others, it is a religious icon reflecting the story of the Christ, not necessarily the ...read more Apr 9, 2020 When World War I and Pandemic Influenced the 1920 Presidential Election Lashed by a squall of historical events over four harrowing years, exhausted Americans longed to catch their collective breath as Election Day approached. The four years leading up to the presidential election of 1920 had delivered a ghastly confluence of war, pestilence, ...read more Apr 9, 2020 How Diseases Spread: Ways People Have Tried to Explain Pandemics Through History Throughout millennia, people have fostered some pretty irrational ideas about how infectious diseases such as plague and cholera were spread. Some of those notions—like the idea that the ancient Cyprian plague could be caught simply by staring into the face of someone ...read more Apr 8, 2020 Why Eisenhower Sent the 101st Airborne to Little Rock After Brown v. Board When the Supreme Court ruled in 1954 that separate schools for whites and blacks were unconstitutional and inherently unequal, the slow and often violent dismantling of segregation in educational institutions began across the country. Knowing that there would be defiance and ...read more Apr 8, 2020 Loading… See More Ad Choices Advertise Closed Captioning Copyright Policy Corporate Information Employment Opportunities FAQ/Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use TV Parental Guidelines RSS Feeds Accessibility Support © 2020 A&E Television Networks, LLC. All Rights Reserved.