https://www.flipboard.com/@historychannel
HISTORY on Flipboard
HISTORY checkmark What you need to know about the past to understand the present. FollowAdd favoriteShareFlip 1 10,584 Followers Magazines Stories By HISTORY Followers Michael kennedy Keith Collett Mansoo Kim kgains Kevin Tina Chinai Mete Yaylali srhaden Chris Thomas Brandon J McEwen Melissa Apostolos Christopher L. Negron Jari Blankenburgh steph5568 See more Flips HISTORY flipped into Stories History How Pandemics Spurred Cities to Make More Green Space for People history.com - By Christopher Klein Cholera tore through New York City in the summer of 1832, leaving its victims with sunken eyes, blue skin, severe diarrhea, nausea and vomiting. It … 1 day ago Share Flip HISTORY flipped into Stories History How Nixon’s Invasion of Cambodia Triggered a Check on Presidential Power history.com - By Jessica Pearce Rotondi When President Richard Nixon ordered U.S. ground troops to invade Cambodia on April 28, 1970, he waited two days to announce on national television … 1 day ago Share Flip HISTORY flipped into Stories History President Ulysses S. Grant: Known for Scandals, Overlooked for Achievements history.com - By Greg Daugherty For decades after his death in 1885, Ulysses S. Grant suffered a reputation as one of the nation’s worst presidents, consistently ranking in the … 4 days ago Share Flip HISTORY flipped into Stories History When WWI, Pandemic and Slump Ended, Americans Sprung Into the Roaring Twenties history.com - By Dave Roos The unprecedented death and destruction wrought by World War I leveled economies the world over, but the situation was different in the United States. … 4 days ago Share Flip HISTORY flipped into Stories History How the Black Death Spread Along the Silk Road history.com - By Patrick J. Kiger The Silk Road, a network of land and sea trade routes that connected China and the Far East with Europe from 130 B.C. to 1453 A.D., became a vital … 5 days ago Share Flip HISTORY flipped into Stories Icon version of the Flipboard logo History How the US Pulled Off Midterm Elections Amid the 1918 Flu Pandemic history.com - By Sarah Pruitt In the fall of 1918, the United States was approaching a midterm election like none other before. Not only were President Woodrow Wilson and his … 6 days ago Share Flip HISTORY flipped into Stories Icon version of the Flipboard logo History 6 Legendary Lost Treasures of World War II history.com - By Becky Little War has always brought chaos, and with it an opportunity for pillage and plunder. This was especially true during World War II, when countless pieces … April 17 Share Flip HISTORY flipped into Stories Icon version of the Flipboard logo How FDR's 'Fireside Chats' Helped Calm a Nation in Crisis history.com - By Sarah Pruitt When Franklin D. Roosevelt was inaugurated on March 4, 1933, the United States was entering the fourth year of the Great Depression, the worst … April 7 Share Flip HISTORY flipped into Stories Icon version of the Flipboard logo History How the Union Pulled Off a Presidential Election During the Civil War history.com - By Becky Little The United States has never delayed a presidential election. But there was one instance in which some wondered if the country should: when the nation … April 2 Share Flip HISTORY flipped into Stories History Quarantined for Life: The Tragic History of US Leprosy Colonies history.com - By Natasha Frost For millennia, a diagnosis of leprosy meant a life sentence of social isolation. People afflicted with the condition now known as Hansen’s disease—a … March 31 Share Flip HISTORY flipped into Stories Icon version of the Flipboard logo Social Distancing and Quarantine Were Used in Medieval Times to Fight the Black Death history.com - By Dave Roos Almost 700 years ago, the overwhelmed physicians and health officials fighting a devastating outbreak of bubonic plague in medieval Italy had no … March 25 Share Flip HISTORY flipped into Stories Icon version of the Flipboard logo Why Congress Passed the Defense Production Act in 1950 history.com - By Erin Blakemore “Are YOU doing all you can?” “We can do it!” During World War II, Americans at home were reminded to do their part by splashy propaganda posters that … March 23 Share Flip HISTORY flipped into Stories Icon version of the Flipboard logo 12 Times People Confronted a Crisis With Kindness history.com - By Lesley Kennedy When a natural disaster, pandemic, war or of other crisis strikes, Americans have reacted with acts of kindness, turning both regular civilians and … March 20 Share Flip HISTORY flipped into Stories Icon version of the Flipboard logo How Detroit Factories Retooled During WWII to Defeat Hitler history.com - By A.J. Baime Dwight Eisenhower, the Supreme Commander of the Allied Expeditionary Force, would never forget the moment his boots hit the sand during Operation … March 19 Share Flip HISTORY flipped into Stories How Phyllis Schlafly Derailed the Equal Rights Amendment history.com - By Lesley Kennedy In 1972, it seemed ratification of the Equal Rights Amendment was all but a sure thing. First introduced to Congress in 1923 by suffragist Alice Paul, … March 19 Share Flip HISTORY flipped into Stories History How U.S. Cities Tried to Halt the Spread of the 1918 Spanish Flu history.com - By Dave Roos In the late summer of 1918, the devastating second wave of the Spanish flu arrived on America’s shores. Carried by World War I doughboys returning … March 11 Share Flip HISTORY flipped into Stories Did Cleopatra Really Die by Snake Bite? history.com - By Sarah Pruitt Cleopatra’s death appears to have played out as dramatically as the life she lived. After the Egyptian queen and her longtime lover, the Roman general … March 10 Share Flip HISTORY flipped into Stories It Took Surprisingly Long for Doctors to Figure Out the Benefits of Hand Washing history.com - By Becky Little One of the best ways to prevent the spread of the flu and other viruses is to wash your hands. Today, this may seem like common sense to many people … March 6 Share Flip HISTORY flipped into Stories 6 Inventions by Thomas Edison That Took the World by Storm history.com - By Patrick J. Kiger Thomas Edison applied for his first patent in 1868, when he was just 21 years old. The famous inventor’s first brainchild was for a device that … March 6 Share Flip HISTORY flipped into Stories How Did Humans Evolve? history.com - By Becky Little The first humans emerged in Africa around two million years ago, long before the modern humans known as Homo sapiens appeared on the same … March 5 Share Flip HISTORY flipped into Stories Dwight Eisenhower's Quiet Plan to Silence Joseph McCarthy history.com - By Jesse Greenspan Though they were both Republicans and briefly campaigned together in 1952, President Dwight D. Eisenhower “loathed [Senator Joseph] McCarthy as much … March 4 Share Flip HISTORY flipped into Stories Icon version of the Flipboard logo Latinx News Why the Second Wave of the 1918 Spanish Flu Was So Deadly history.com - By Dave Roos The horrific scale of the 1918 influenza pandemic—known as the "Spanish flu"—is hard to fathom. The virus infected 500 million people worldwide and … March 3 Share Flip HISTORY flipped into Stories The Daring Disguise that Helped One Enslaved Couple Escape to Freedom history.com - By Thad Morgan In the mid 19th century in Macon, Georgia, a man and woman fell in love, married and, as many young couples do, began thinking about starting a … February 28 Share Flip HISTORY flipped into Stories At Cold War Nuclear Fallout Shelters, These Foods Were Stocked for Survival history.com - By Sarah Pruitt What were postwar Americans planning to eat in the event of a nuclear attack? Hint: It wasn’t very appetizing. With Cold War tensions escalating in … February 26 Share Flip HISTORY flipped into Stories 4 Contested Conventions in Presidential Election History history.com - By Lesley Kennedy For all the pomp and circumstance that once surrounded presidential party conventions, they’re rarely all that dramatic today. In fact, the last time … February 26 Share Flip HISTORY flipped into Stories History How the Harlem Globetrotters Rose From Midwest Obscurity to Become Global Stars: Photos history.com - By Rashad Grove For nearly a century, the Harlem Globetrotters have brought flair and antics to the game of basketball. The team has played to more than 148 million … February 25 Share Flip HISTORY flipped into Stories 7 Invasive Species That Have Wreaked Havoc in the US history.com - By Becky Little The history of invasive species is usually one of unforeseen consequences. When an animal, fish, insect or plant is taken out of its original … February 24 Share Flip HISTORY flipped into Stories How Presidents Have Communicated with the Public—From the Telegraph to Twitter history.com - By Dave Roos Two centuries before Twitter, U.S. presidents understood the power of communicating directly with the people. From George Washington to Donald Trump, … February 24 Share Flip HISTORY flipped into Stories How Burmese Pythons Took Over the Florida Everglades history.com - By Adam Janos Starting in the 1980s, the swamps of the South Florida Everglades have been overrun by one of the most damaging invasive species the region has ever … February 20 Share Flip HISTORY flipped into Stories Why do we have leap year? history.com - By Evan Andrews Nearly every four years, we add an extra day to the calendar in the form of February 29, also known as Leap Day. Put simply, these additional 24 … Feb 19, 2014 Share Flip Load more Log In About Us Blog Tools Publishers Help Terms Privacy Policy Sitemap© 2020 Flipboard