https://www.history.com/topics/us-states/california
California - HISTORY
Shows This Day In History Schedule Topics Stories Ad Choices Advertise Closed Captioning Copyright Policy Corporate Information Employment Opportunities FAQ/Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use TV Parental Guidelines RSS Feeds Accessibility Support Privacy Settings Shows This Day In History Schedule Topics Stories Shows This Day In History Schedule Topics Stories Updated: Mar 13, 2019 Original: Nov 9, 2009 California Author: History.com Editors Contents Interesting Facts The first Spanish missionaries arrived in California in the 1700s, but California didn’t become a U.S. territory until 1847, as part of the treaty ending the Mexican-American War. Shortly thereafter, the discovery of gold at Sutter’s Mill in 1848 inspired a wave of settlers to head to the west coast in search of fortune. In 1850 California became the 31st state, and is now the third largest state behind Alaska and Texas. With millions of acres of farmland, California leads the U.S. in agricultural production. The state is also home to famous cultural institutions and national parks including: Hollywood, Disneyland, Yosemite National Park, Alcatraz, Angel Island and the Golden Gate Bridge. Date of Statehood: September 9, 1850 Capital: Sacramento Population: 37,253,956 (2010) Size: 163,694 square miles Nickname(s): The Golden State; The Land of Milk and Honey; The El Dorado State; The Grape State Motto: Eureka (“I have found it”) Tree: California Redwood Flower: Poppy Bird: California Valley Quail 9 Gallery 9 Images Interesting Facts Following James Marshall’s discovery of gold at Sutter’s Mill in Coloma in 1848, California’s population leaped from 14,000 to 250,000 in only four years. Between 1850 and 1859, miners extracted 28,280,711 fine ounces of gold. California has the largest economy in the United States and, in 1997, was the first state to reach the trillion-dollar benchmark in gross state product. In 2012, California was ranked the ninth largest economy in the world. California grows more than 3.3 million tons of winegrapes on over 540,000 acres each year and produces roughly 90 percent of all U.S. wine. The highest and lowest points in the continental United States are located within 100 miles of one another in California: Mount Whitney measures 14,505 feet and Badwater Basin in Death Valley is 282 feet below sea level. Considered to be the hottest, driest place in the United States, Death Valley often reaches temperatures greater than 120 degrees Fahrenheit during the summer and averages only around two inches of rain each year. With a trunk slightly greater than 102 feet in circumference, the General Sherman in Sequoia National Park is the largest living tree (by volume) in the world. It is estimated to be somewhere between 1,800 to 2,700 years old. Southern California has about 10,000 earthquakes each year, although only 15 to 20 of them have a magnitude greater than 4.0. Despite its urbanization and the loss of land to industry, California still leads the country in agricultural production. About one-half of the state’s land is federally owned. National parks located throughout the state are devoted to the preservation of nature and natural resources. Citation Information Article Title California Author History.com Editors Website Name HISTORY URL https://www.history.com/topics/us-states/california Access Date Publisher A&E Television Networks Last Updated March 13, 2019 Original Published Date November 9, 2009 By History.com Editors FACT CHECK: We strive for accuracy and fairness. But if you see something that doesn't look right, click here to contact us! VIDEOS California Randy Newman: California Teens Visit California's "Mystery Spot" Post-Pear Harbor Blackout in California Subscribe for fascinating stories connecting the past to the present. SIGN UP RELATED CONTENT Baja California Tourists flock to Baja California—separated from the rest of Mexico by the Sea of Cortez—to visit its stunning shoreline and test their mettle at sport fishing. The state’s border crossing at Tijuana is the busiest in all of Mexico. The international port of Ensenada, located on ...read more California Missions The California missions began in the late 18th century as an effort to convert Native Americans to Catholicism and expand European territory. There were 21 missions in all, lasting from 1769 until about 1833. The California missions began in the late 18th century as an effort ...read more California Gold Rush The California Gold Rush was sparked by the discovery of gold nuggets in the Sacramento Valley in early 1848 and was arguably one of the most significant events to shape American history during the first half of the 19th century. As news spread of the discovery, thousands of ...read more Baja California Sur Baja California Sur’s glorious colonial past has made it a center for historical architecture and traditional art forms, and it’s also a great place to surf and fish. Since Baja California Sur occupies the southern end of a peninsula, overland travel to the rest of Mexico is ...read more San Francisco Perched atop hills and filled-in marshland at the entrance to one of the Pacific’s largest natural harbors, San Francisco has had an outsized influence on the history of California and the United States. Originally a Spanish (later Mexican) mission and pueblo, it was conquered ...read more California’s Little-Known Genocide “Gold! Gold from the American River!” Samuel Brannan walked up and down the streets of San Francisco, holding up a bottle of pure gold dust. His triumphant announcement, and the discovery of gold at nearby Sutter’s Mill in 1848, ushered in a new era for California—one in which ...read more Utah Mountains, high plateaus and deserts form most of Utah’s landscape. At Four Corners, in the southeast, Utah meets Colorado, New Mexico and Arizona at right angles, the only such meeting of states in the country. Utah became the 45th member of the union on Jan. 4, 1896, with Salt ...read more Montana Montana is the fourth largest U.S. state by area, behind Alaska, Texas and California, but with an average of just six people per square mile, it is one of the country’s least densely populated states. Although the name Montana is derived from the Spanish montaña (“mountain” or ...read more Alaska The largest state (in area) of the United States, Alaska was admitted to the union as the 49th state in 1959, and lies at the extreme northwest of the North American continent. Acquired by the United States in 1867, the territory was dubbed “Seward’s Folly” after U.S. Secretary ...read more Loading… See More Ad Choices Advertise Closed Captioning Copyright Policy Corporate Information Employment Opportunities FAQ/Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use TV Parental Guidelines RSS Feeds Accessibility Support © 2020 A&E Television Networks, LLC. All Rights Reserved.