http://dmoztools.net/Regional/North_America/United_States/Government/Elections/
DMOZ - Regional: North America: United States: Government: Elections
DMOZ About Become an Editor Suggest a Site Help Login Share via Facebook Share via Twitter Share via LinkedIn Share via e-Mail Visit DMOZ on Facebook Visit DMOZ on Twitter the entire directory Regional North America United States Government Elections Help with Search Regional North America United States Government Elections 827 This category contains links to sites for ongoing political campaigns, candidates, and elections in the United States. Sites geared both towards voters and to political professionals are considered for review, but they should specifically address campaigns and elections conducted for national-level offices. Since state and local campaigns are generally of local interest, they are both kept in the appropriate category for politics at the state level. Subcategories 20 By State 0 President 763 US House 13 US Senate 14 Election Reform 47 Electoral College 10 Electronic Democracy 32 Electronic Voting Systems 20 Federal Election Commission - FEC 1 Voter Registration and Information 9 1996 0 2000 7 2002 2 2004 0 2006 5 2008 5 2010 7 2012 0 2014 18 Current 208 Related categories 4 Kids and Teens School Time Social Studies Geography North America United States Government Elections 9 Regional North America United States Society and Culture Politics Candidates and Campaigns 208 Society Activism Regional North America United States 102 Society Politics Campaigns and Elections 172 Sites 11 The American National Election Studies (ANES) A collaboration of Stanford University and the University of Michigan, producing data on voting, public opinion, and political participation. Early Voting Information Center (EVIC) at Reed College Provides state-by-state information on early and absentee voting. EVIC is dedicated to the study of early and convenience voting trends in the United States and abroad. Located at Reed College in Portland, Oregon. The Green Papers Facts, figures, and tidbits about caucuses, primaries, delegate selection, state conventions, party conventions, and the candidates. infoplease - U.S. Elections General election background material plus election results and statistics. Initiative and Referendum Institute Non-profit non-partisan research and educational organization dedicated to the expansion of the initiative and referendum process in the US. Law Library of Congress - Guide to Law Online: U.S. Elections Collection of online national and subnational sources including primary documents, legal commentary, and general government information about specific jurisdictions and topics. Library of Congress - Elections & Voting Selected collection content available online at the Library of Congress, related to national elections and voting. National Association of Election Officials Professional association for people involved in voter registration and elections administration. Includes election resources, events calendar, member alerts, membership directory and publications. Spotlight Biography: Elections and Voting Article on three people who changed the electoral landscape in America: Andrew Jackson, Lucretia Coffin Mott, and Carrie Chapman Catt. United States Elections Project Provides timely and accurate election statistics, electoral laws, research reports and other useful information regarding the United States electoral system to inform the people of the United States how the system works, how it may be improved, and how they can participate in it. From Michael P. McDonald at the University of Florida. Wikipedia - Category: Elections in the United States Directory of encyclopedia articles about the campaigns, candidates and elections at the U.S. federal, state and local levels. Other languages 3 Deutsch 6 Español 7 Français 12 Last update: January 26, 2017 at 9:13:23 UTC Regional Science Shopping Society Sports All Languages Arts Business Computers Games Health Home News Recreation Reference "U.S. Elections" search on: AOL - Ask - Bing - DuckDuckGo - Gigablast - Google - ixquick - Yahoo - Yandex - Yippy Copyright © 1998-2017 AOL Inc. Terms of Use Built by CMBuild