http://dmoztools.net/Regional/North_America/United_States/Government/Elections/President/Electoral_College/
DMOZ - Regional: North America: United States: Government: Elections: President: Electoral College
DMOZ About Become an Editor Suggest a Site Help Login Share via Facebook Share via Twitter Share via LinkedIn Share via e-Mail Visit DMOZ on Facebook Visit DMOZ on Twitter the entire directory Regional North America United States Government Elections President Electoral College Help with Search Regional North America United States Government Elections President Electoral College 10 Provides information about the electoral college system and process. Subcategories 3 Abolition or Reform 2 Twenty-Third Amendment 1 Vote Swapping 2 Related categories 4 Regional North America United States Government Law Constitution 12th Amendment 4 Regional North America United States Government Law Constitution Article Two 3 Society Politics Campaigns and Elections Election Reform 0 Society Politics Campaigns and Elections Voting Systems 31 Sites 8 US National Archives and Records Administration - Electoral College Provides information and statistics including a FAQ, electoral college calculator, teaching resources, historical election results and deadlines for state officials and voting resources. 270toWin.com Interactive map for do-it-yourself projections of the electoral college results in the presidential election. Includes results of prior elections and each state's voting history. The Case Program - The Electoral College Information about the electoral college system presented by the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. Harper's Weekly - Hayes vs. Tilden: The Electoral College Controversy of 1876-1877 Provides an overview of the controversy, biographies of those involved, and a day-by-day account of the events. How Stuff Works - How the Electoral College Works Kevin Bonsor's explanation includes an introduction, the Founding Fathers' idea, how electors get the real vote, distribution of 2004 and 2008 electoral votes, when the Electoral College counted, and the present view. John W. Cooper - Is This a Democratic Way to Pick a President? Defense of the electoral college and representative democracies from a senior at the University of Michigan's Ross School of Business NPR - Debating the Merits of the Electoral College Collection of stories reflecting various views on the Electoral College. President Elect Information on the election of US Presidents and the electoral college. Offers election results since 1789, history and electoral college debate. Last update: May 6, 2016 at 6:48:38 UTC Regional Science Shopping Society Sports All Languages Arts Business Computers Games Health Home News Recreation Reference "Regional ... Electoral College" search on: AOL - Ask - Bing - DuckDuckGo - Gigablast - Google - ixquick - Yahoo - Yandex - Yippy Copyright © 1998-2017 AOL Inc. Terms of Use Built by CMBuild