http://dmoztools.net/Regional/North_America/United_States/Government/Elections/President/2000/
DMOZ - Regional: North America: United States: Government: Elections: President: 2000
DMOZ About Become an Editor Suggest a Site Help Login Share via Facebook Share via Twitter Share via LinkedIn Share via e-Mail Visit DMOZ on Facebook Visit DMOZ on Twitter the entire directory Regional North America United States Government Elections President 2000 Help with Search Regional North America United States Government Elections President 2000 36 This category contains links to the candidates and campaigns for President of the United States in the year 2000 AD. The President is the chief executive of the United States, with powers and duties enumerated under Article II of the United States Constitution. To be eligible for office, he or she must be a native-born citizen of the United States and a resident thereof for 14 years, and at least 35 years of age. The President and Vice-President are elected together. When Americans vote for President and Vice-President, it should be noted, they do not actually vote for them but for a candidate's electors, who subsequently meet in state capitals after the general election and cast the official votes. Each state is allowed as many electors as it has Senators and Congressmen; thus, California has 54 (52 members of the US House and 2 US Senators) and Delaware has 3 (1 member of the US House and 2 US Senators). A candidate who wins a state's vote, no matter by how small a margin, is entitled to all the electors from that state-- which impacts the manner in which Presidential campaigns are conducted. Subcategories 8 Candidates 15 Conventions 1 Debates 4 Humor 10 News and Media 6 Polls and Surveys 1 Post-election Controversy 8 Vote Swapping 2 Related categories 1 Regional North America United States Government Elections 2000 7 Sites 3 Concord High School: The 2000 Presidential Election Information Center High school history project with information about candidate positions on health care and campaign finance reform. Copernicus Election Watch Educational resource for democracy, voting, and political history within the context of the 2000 U.S. presidential election. JURIST - Presidential Election Law: Florida Recount and Other Issues Extensive resource provides a timeline, FAQs, legal news, statutes and cases, departments and officials, lawsuits, documents, glossary and legal commentary. Last update: November 20, 2016 at 2:59:18 UTC Regional Science Shopping Society Sports All Languages Arts Business Computers Games Health Home News Recreation Reference "Regional ... 2000" search on: AOL - Ask - Bing - DuckDuckGo - Gigablast - Google - ixquick - Yahoo - Yandex - Yippy Copyright © 1998-2017 AOL Inc. Terms of Use Built by CMBuild