http://dmoztools.net/Society/History/By_Region/North_America/United_States/Presidents/
DMOZ - Society: History: By Region: North America: United States: Presidents
DMOZ About Become an Editor Suggest a Site Help Login Share via Facebook Share via Twitter Share via LinkedIn Share via e-Mail Visit DMOZ on Facebook Visit DMOZ on Twitter the entire directory Society History By Region North America United States Presidents Help with Search Society History By Region North America United States Presidents 852 This category is devoted to sites about each of the Presidents of the United States of America, pertaining both to the persons of the Presidents and to the accomplishments of their administrations. Subcategories 43 Adams, John 11 Adams, John Quincy 14 Arthur, Chester Alan 7 Buchanan, James 36 Bush, George Herbert Walker 10 Bush, George Walker 102 Carter, James Earl 10 Cleveland, Grover 9 Clinton, William Jefferson 84 Coolidge, John Calvin 10 Eisenhower, Dwight David 19 Fillmore, Millard 4 Ford, Gerald Rudolph 6 Garfield, James Abram 7 Grant, Ulysses Simpson 16 Harding, Warren Gamaliel 9 Harrison, Benjamin 6 Harrison, William Henry 4 Hayes, Rutherford Birchard 6 Hoover, Herbert Clark 9 Jackson, Andrew 13 Jefferson, Thomas 39 Johnson, Andrew 9 Johnson, Lyndon Baines 9 Kennedy, John Fitzgerald 56 Lincoln, Abraham 71 Madison, James 5 McKinley, William 10 Monroe, James 8 Nixon, Richard Milhous 23 Obama, Barack 46 Pierce, Franklin 6 Polk, James Knox 4 Reagan, Ronald Wilson 24 Roosevelt, Franklin Delano 13 Roosevelt, Theodore 30 Taft, William Howard 11 Taylor, Zachary 5 Truman, Harry S 15 Tyler, John 6 Van Buren, Martin 7 Washington, George 18 Wilson, Thomas Woodrow 16 Related categories 7 Kids and Teens People and Society Biography Presidents 466 Reference Libraries Presidential 22 Reference Quotations Political 4 Regional North America United States Government Executive Branch Inaugurations 8 Regional North America United States Government Executive Branch President 33 Society History By Region North America United States First Ladies 32 Society History By Region North America United States People 147 Sites 29 The American Presidency: A Glorious Burden Official exhibit site of the Smithsonian's National Museum of American History. Traces the history and culture of the presidency from 1789 through 2000. American President: A Reference Resource Contains detailed biographies, staff listings, position descriptions, organizational charts, and key events for all 43 past and current presidents of the United States, as well as primary source materials and current information about the Presidency. Explores both the historical and political science aspects for the Presidency. American Presidents Blog Weblog featuring sites that relate to the American Presidency or specific American Presidents. Created by Michael Lorenzen who is a librarian at Central Michigan University. American Presidents: Life Portraits Site complements CSPAN television series of the same name. Includes brief facts about each president, plus video clips from the series. Dead Presidents Visits to the gravesites of the U.S. Presidents, with links for more information on their lives. GPO - Compilation of Presidential Documents Archive since 1993 of the Weekly and Daily Compilations of Presidential Documents along with the Digest of White House Announcements, Nominations Submitted to the Senate, Checklist of White House Press Releases, and Acts Approved by the President. GPO - Public Papers of the Presidents of the United States Presidential writings, addresses and remarks of a public nature, compiled and published by the Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration. History.com - U.S. Presidents Features profiles with video and audio galleries, biography, timeline and transcripts of major speeches for each. I Do Solemnly Swear: Inaugural Materials from the Collections of the Library of Congress Exhibit featuring rare photographs, manuscripts, campaign posters, letters, broadsides, and speeches from the inaugurations of eighteen presidents The Independent - US Presidents' Lives Profiles of each of the U.S. presidents with photos and timelines. IPL2 - Presidents of the United States Background information, election results, cabinet members, notable events, and some points of interest on each of the presidents. Links to biographies, historical documents, audio and video files, and other presidential sites are also included to enrich this site. Library of Congress - Presidents of the United States: Resource Guides Webguides for each U.S. president include digital materials available throughout the Library’s web site, links to external Web sites and a bibliography containing selected works for both a general audience and younger readers. Masonic Presidents Tour Identifies U.S. Presidents who were Masons. Includes a portrait of each, along with his signature and a record of his Masonic career. PBS - American Experience: The Presidents Documentaries of all 20th century American presidents with podcasts, extended biographies, quotes, primary source materials, teaching materials and links to related sites. Portraits of the Presidents and First Ladies Find pictorial records of the first families from the Library of Congress Prints and Photograph Division. Presidential Factfile A comprehensive collection of photographs, biographies, quizzes, and trivia from Infoplease.com. Presidential Gravesites and Homes A personal photo collection of the homes and gravesites of the Presidents of the United States. Presidents Index contains biographies, sketches, writings, and speeches. Presidents of the United States Includes information about U.S. Presidents, including biographies, campaign histories, trivia, genealogy, and museums. The Presidents of the United States Short history of the U.S. Presidency, along with biographical sketches and portraits of all the presidents to date. From the official White House site. Presidents of the United States - Archontology A directory of American Presidents from 1774 to 2005 with dates of rule or office and selected biographies. Russell D. Renka - U.S. Presidency Links Comprehensive guide to web resources from the professor's syllabus at Southeast Missouri State University. Teaching about the U.S. Presidency Provides full-text access to the ERIC Digest of this name which gives advice to teachers about instructing students on the American Presidency. U.S. Presidents and the Bible Quotes from past U.S. Presidents on what they thought about the bible. U.S. Presidents: Lists and Records Collection of presidential facts and trivia in list form. University of Virginia - Presidential Recordings Program Transcripts, audio files and related historical resources of six American presidents - Franklin Roosevelt, Truman, Eisenhower, Kennedy, Lyndon Johnson, and Nixon - who secretly recorded on tape just under 5,000 hours of their meetings and telephone conversations from 1940-1973. US Presidential Candidates Collection of biographies and major speeches of each president. USA Presidents Provides biographies and information on each American president. Also includes the text of Inaugural and State of the Union speeches, details on the presidency, and links to related resources. Wikipedia: Historical Rankings of United States Presidents Summary tables of various polls rating the presidents over the years. Last update: January 27, 2017 at 11:35:12 UTC Society Sports All Languages Arts Business Computers Games Health Home News Recreation Reference Regional Science Shopping "Society ... Presidents" search on: AOL - Ask - Bing - DuckDuckGo - Gigablast - Google - ixquick - Yahoo - Yandex - Yippy Copyright © 1998-2017 AOL Inc. Terms of Use Built by CMBuild