https://www.vote411.org/ballot
Personalized Ballot | VOTE411
Skip to main navigation Register to vote Donate Voting in My State Select your State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District Of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Compare State Issues VOTER REGISTRATION Register to Vote Registration Deadlines VOTER GUIDES COVID-19 (Coronavirus) State Election Alerts Candidate and Ballot Measure Information First Time Voter Checklist 2020 Presidential Voter Guide ABOUT VOTE411 About Sponsors and Partnerships Support VOTE411 Register to Vote Donate Voter Guides Your Voters' Guide Personalized Ballot Information Learn where candidates running for office in your community stand on the issues. You can print or email the information to use as a reference when you actually vote. We do not save your information, it will be lost when you leave this page. Only candidates that appear on your ballot will be listed. Additional information may be available for your area so be sure to scroll to the bottom of the page for other voters’ guides. ... All above responses come directly from the candidates and are unedited by LWV. The League does not support or oppose any candidates or parties. Get Other Personalized Voting Information See What's On Your Ballot Find Your Polling Place Discover Upcoming Debates And Forums In Your Area and much more! Get Started Voting Guides Greater Omaha NE Primary 2020 Voters' Guide Ridgewood NJ Board of Education Voters' Guide Ridgewood NJ Village Council Voter Guide Teaneck NJ Town Council 2020 Voters' Guide Candidate Debate Videos City of Bonita Springs FL City Council Districts 2 and 4 Candidate Forum Video City of Oldsmar FL Candidate Forum Montclair NJ Municipal Election Candidate Debate Video Wisconsin Supreme Court Justice Candidate Forum (Green Bay) Election day problems? Report an election problem by calling: 1-866-OUR-VOTE (866-687-8683) 1-888-VE-Y-VOTA (en Español) 1-888-API-VOTE (Asian multilingual assistance) 1-844-YALLA-US (Arabic) Donate Help us provide accurate and unbiased voting information by donating today! Make a donation Your Voting Guide Find what's on your ballot Explore Now VOTE411 is committed to ensuring voters have the information they need to successfully participate in every election. Whether it's local, state or federal, every election is important to ensuring our laws and policies reflect the values and beliefs of our communities. Contact Us About Us Get Involved Sponsors & Partners Follow us Facebook Instagram Twitter Brought to you by ©2020 League of Women Voters Education Fund. All rights reserved. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Close × Get Started Enter Your Address Select a state Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District Of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Submit Close × Get Started Enter Your Address Select a state Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District Of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Submit