https://www.vote411.org/first-time-voter-checklist
First Time Voter Checklist | VOTE411
Skip to main navigation Register to vote Donate Voting in My State Select your State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District Of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Compare State Issues VOTER REGISTRATION Register to Vote Registration Deadlines VOTER GUIDES COVID-19 (Coronavirus) State Election Alerts Candidate and Ballot Measure Information First Time Voter Checklist 2020 Presidential Voter Guide ABOUT VOTE411 About Sponsors and Partnerships Support VOTE411 Register to Vote Donate Voter Guides First Time Voter Checklist We've taken the guesswork out of voting! Follow this checklist and get prepared to go to the polls: Spread the word Permalink copied to clipboard Register to Vote It only takes 2 minutes to register. Get started by using our easy, online tool. Find your Polling Place Find out where you can vote in person on Election Day by entering your address here. Also, learn about early and absentee voting options. See what your state allows. See What's on your Ballot Learn where candidates running for office in your area stand on the issues, and about the ballot measures on your ballot by checking out our voters' guide. Check if you need an ID to Vote Some states require you bring your ID to vote. See if your state requires an ID here. VOTE! Cast your ballot and let your voice be heard! Nervous about what it will be like at the polls? No need to fear! We have information on the voting machines used in your state, and you can bring a filled in (and printed) voters' guide with you into the booth! This is all you need to vote! But if you want more information, we have it: Eligibility Requirements. Time off for Voting. Provisions for Voters with Disabilities. Candidate Debates and Forums. Campaign Finance Information. And much more! View More Information Election day problems? Report an election problem by calling: 1-866-OUR-VOTE (866-687-8683) 1-888-VE-Y-VOTA (en Español) 1-888-API-VOTE (Asian multilingual assistance) 1-844-YALLA-US (Arabic) Donate Help us provide accurate and unbiased voting information by donating today! Make a donation Your Voting Guide Find what's on your ballot Explore Now VOTE411 is committed to ensuring voters have the information they need to successfully participate in every election. Whether it's local, state or federal, every election is important to ensuring our laws and policies reflect the values and beliefs of our communities. Contact Us About Us Get Involved Sponsors & Partners Follow us Facebook Instagram Twitter Brought to you by ©2020 League of Women Voters Education Fund. All rights reserved. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Close × Get Started Enter Your Address Select a state Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District Of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Submit Close × Get Started Enter Your Address Select a state Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District Of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Submit