https://www.vote411.org/2020-presidential-voter-guide
2020 Presidential Voter Guide | VOTE411
Skip to main navigation Register to vote Donate Voting in My State Select your State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District Of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Compare State Issues VOTER REGISTRATION Register to Vote Registration Deadlines VOTER GUIDES COVID-19 (Coronavirus) State Election Alerts Candidate and Ballot Measure Information First Time Voter Checklist 2020 Presidential Voter Guide ABOUT VOTE411 About Sponsors and Partnerships Support VOTE411 Register to Vote Donate Voter Guides Presidential Voter Guide Our non-partisan guide to the 2020 candidates Our Approach Candidate Qualifications Only the candidates that meet the following criteria were invited to respond to the League's questions in this guide: 1. The candidate must have made a public announcement of her/his intention to run for her/his Party's nomination for President; and, 2. The candidate must meet the Presidential Election Campaign Fund Act's minimum contribution threshold requirements for qualifying for matching funds, based on the most recent data publicly available on the Federal Election Commission Website. During the Presidential primary season, voters cast a ballot for candidates in one party. League of Women Voters Education Fund (LWVEF) is required to have at least two candidates from the same party meet the above criteria before launching a voters' guide covering that party. At this time, only one candidate running for the Republican Party's nomination has meet the LWVEF criteria and therefore no Republican candidates have been invited to participate. As soon as two Republican candidates meet the criteria or the party's national nominating convention occurs, LWVEF will begin outreach to the qualified candidates immediately. Unbiased Interviews We asked all the candidates the same set of questions. The questions were created after going through national polling information over the past year. The questions were designed to ask the candidates questions on the issues voters care most about, today. Candidates submit their answers directly and we present their responses here, word for word. Presidential Office Duties The President is: the head of state of the United States of America; the Chief Executive Officer; and the Commander in Chief of all military forces. The powers of the President are prescribed in the Constitution and federal law. The President appoints the members of the Cabinet, ambassadors to other nations and the United Nations, Supreme Court Justices, and federal judges, subject to Senate approval. The President, along with the Cabinet and its agencies, is responsible for carrying out and enforcing the laws of the United States. The President may also recommend legislation to the United States Congress. Term: Four years. Limit of two terms. Base Salary: $400,000 per year. Español Hay mas información disponible in español. Por favor, haga clic en los enlaces aquí para ver contenido en Español: VOTE411.org/ballot Personalized voting information See What's On Your Ballot Check Your Voter Registration Find Your Polling Place Discover Upcoming Debates and Forum in Your Area Get Started Spread the word Permalink copied to clipboard The Democrats Read more Joe Biden Former Vice President of the United States, former U.S. Senator from Delaware WITHDREW Read more Michael Bennet WITHDREW Read more Pete Buttigieg Mayor of South Bend, Indiana WITHDREW Read more Tulsi Gabbard U.S. Representative for Hawaii's 2nd district WITHDREW Read more Amy Klobuchar U.S. Senator WITHDREW Read more Bernie Sanders Senator WITHDREW Read more Elizabeth Warren U.S. Senator WITHDREW Read more Andrew Yang Entrepreneur and Non-Profit Leader Find out what’s on your ballot View your ballot Election day problems? Report an election problem by calling: 1-866-OUR-VOTE (866-687-8683) 1-888-VE-Y-VOTA (en Español) 1-888-API-VOTE (Asian multilingual assistance) 1-844-YALLA-US (Arabic) Donate Help us provide accurate and unbiased voting information by donating today! Make a donation Your Voting Guide Find what's on your ballot Explore Now VOTE411 is committed to ensuring voters have the information they need to successfully participate in every election. Whether it's local, state or federal, every election is important to ensuring our laws and policies reflect the values and beliefs of our communities. Contact Us About Us Get Involved Sponsors & Partners Follow us Facebook Instagram Twitter Brought to you by ©2020 League of Women Voters Education Fund. All rights reserved. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Close × Get Started Enter Your Address Select a state Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District Of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Submit Close × Get Started Enter Your Address Select a state Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District Of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Submit