https://www.afacwa.org/
Association of Flight Attendants-CWA
Association of Flight Attendants-CWA Our Union About AFA Leadership Our Airlines Constitution & Bylaws Elections Turbulent Romance Contact AFA-CWA Change of Address Milestones BOD Never Forget Social Media Policy Resources Cabin Seat Agreements Disaster Relief Fund Scholarships Union Plus Services / Discounts Dues Payment LUS Short-Term Disability Enrollment Flight Attendant Drug & Alcohol Program Layover Safety Departments Safety, Health & Security Government Affairs Legal Communications Employee Assistance Membership Services Collective Bargaining Education Join Us E-News Signup Organizing News Tips on Writing a Letter to the Editor Latest News Media Releases AFA Interactive Flightlog Issues Coronavirus (2019-nCoV) The coronavirus originated in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China, in December 2019. This page contains the latest information on the outbreak and resources for aviation's first responders. Read more » We Support Delta Flight Attendant Efforts to Join AFA Today, the Association of Flight Attendants-CWA (AFA) announced that the union is putting its full resources behind efforts of Flight Attendants at Delta Air Lines working to organize a union with AFA. Read more » AFA Disaster Relief Fund We take care of each other, Flight Attendants helping Flight Attendants. The AFA Disaster Relief Fund provides assistance to AFA members and retirees who have suffered significant damage and/or relocation as a result of a disaster. Read more » The Fight Is Still On We launched a petition on fightfor10.org to call on DOT and FAA to immediately implement the law, and to encourage members of Congress to hold them accountable. Read more » Boeing 737 MAX The latest information on the grounding, accident investigations, and certification. Read more » Safety, Security, and Jobs Protected – #LockoutNeverAgain While Flight Attendants are relieved to avoid a continued shutdown, we must work to ensure it never happens again. Our safety and security is not a political game. Read more » Optional email code Get Email Updates Flight Attendant Detained by ICE UPDATE 3/22/19 7:15 pm Eastern: Selene was released from the detention center, thanks to your action. Washington Post article: https://wapo.st/2U3E1w7 Flight Attendant Selene Saavedra Roman is sitting in an ICE detention center - where she has been held for over a month in inhumane conditions - and threatened with deportation to a country she's never known. We demand that Selene immediately be released, reunited with her husband, and all charges against her dropped. Full story Flight Attendants are Essential Workers Even with our schedules at 10-20% of normal levels, Flight Attendants are still working and providing essential service to our nation. Flight Attendants have been on the frontlines of coronavirus since the beginning, and many studies show we are the most likely exposed workers after healthcare. Read more> AFA to DOT and HHS: Require Masks, PPE AFA sent a letter to Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao and Health and Human Service Secretary Alex Azar to implement new, stronger measures to protect flight crews and passengers from the spread of COVID-19 including mandating all crews, employees and passengers wear masks onboard and in the airports. Read more> Coronavirus (COVID-19) Updates The global situation on Coronavirus (COVID-19) is changing rapidly. Flight Attendants and airlines have been on the frontlines of the initial outbreak in China and throughout Asia. Read more> Hawaiian Airlines Flight Attendants Ratify Contract April 3, 2020 - Hawaiian Airlines Flight Attendants, represented by the Association of Flight Attendants-CWA (AFA), today voted to ratify a new contract. The five year agreement provides immediate pay increases, establishes pay guarantees, and keeps healthcare costs in check for the over 2,100 Hawaiian Flight Attendants. Read more> Delta Connection Endeavor Air Flight Attendants Ratify New Contract March 25, 2020 - Endeavor Air Flight Attendants, represented by the Association of Flight Attendants-CWA (AFA), today voted to ratify a new contract. The five year agreement provides immediate pay increases, increased minimum guarantees, and improved work rules for the nearly 1,500 Endeavor Flight Attendants. Read more> New Option of PreCheck for Non-Uniform Crewmember The Transportation Security Administration today announced an expanded option for non-uniformed crewmembers transiting security checkpoints with a crew badge. Crewmembers with a badge may now utilize the PreCheck lines out of uniform. Read more> Latest Updates (all updates) See all » Flight Attendants are Essential Workers April 27, 2020 Dear Flight Attendants: Today is Essential Worker Day. It’s a day to... Read more » Airline executives don't need a bailout—but thousands of flight attendants do. Here's... Read more » AFA to DOT and HHS: Require Masks, PPE, and Suspend Leisure Travel April 23, 2020 — AFA sent a letter... Read more » Issues Stay Connected News Desk Latest News See All » April 27, 2020 Flight Attendants are Essential Workers Flight Attendants are Essential Workers April 27, 2020 Dear Flight Attendants: Today... April 24, 2020 OP-ED: Airline executives don't need a bailout—but thousands of flight attendants do.... Airline executives don't need a bailout—but thousands of flight attendants do. Here's... Media Releases See All » April 27, 2020 AFA Statement on First U.S. Airline to Require Passengers Wear Masks WASHINGTON, D.C. (April 27, 2020) — The first U.S. airline, jetBlue, announced... April 14, 2020 AFA Statement on Aviation Payroll Grant Agreements WASHINGTON, D.C. (April 14, 2020) — In response to Treasury's announcement of... Latest Tweets Tweets by @afa_cwa Video See All » Union Plus Benefits Union Plus Benefits for AFA-CWA Members! AFA-CWA members are automatically eligible for the following Union Plus benefits and discounts. More benefits » Our Union Resources Departments Join Us News Issues Contact AFA Pay Dues Online