https://www.lwv.org/about-us
About Us | League of Women Voters
Skip to main content Demand Action from Congress to Protect the 2020 Election Call Your Senator Today Demand a Hearing on the For the People Act Take Action for Equal Rights Contact your Senator Stand Up for DC Statehood See More Actions Women Power the Vote Day of Action (February 14, 2020) Toggle navigation Menu Close Search Search Main navigation Voting Rights Expanding Voter Access Redistricting Money in Politics Fighting Voter Suppression Elections Educating Voters Find Your Elected Officials VOTE411 Increasing Voter Registration Other Issues Health Care Reform The Environment Census Immigration About Us History Leadership & Staff Board of Directors & Trustees Membership & Local Leagues Newsroom Financials & Annual Reports Ways to Give Search Utility Navigation Take Action Take Action Donate About Us The League is proud to be nonpartisan, neither supporting nor opposing candidates or political parties at any level of government, but always working on vital issues of concern to members and the public. Home About Us LWVUS The League of Women Voters of the United States encourages informed and active participation in government, works to increase understanding of major public policy issues, and influences public policy through education and advocacy. LWVEF The League of Women Voters Education Fund works to register voters, provide voters with election information through voter guides as well as candidate forums and debates. Our Mission, Vision, and Value Mission Empowering voters. Defending democracy. Vision We envision a democracy where every person has the desire, the right, the knowledge and the confidence to participate. Value We believe in the power of women to create a more perfect democracy. Commitment to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion LWV is an organization fully committed to diversity, equity, and inclusion in principle and in practice. Diversity, equity, and inclusion are central to the organization’s current and future success in engaging all individuals, households, communities, and policy makers in creating a more perfect democracy. There shall be no barriers to full participation in this organization on the basis of gender, gender identity, ethnicity, race, native or indigenous origin, age, generation, sexual orientation, culture, religion, belief system, marital status, parental status, socioeconomic status, language, accent, ability status, mental health, educational level or background, geography, nationality, work style, work experience, job role function, thinking style, personality type, physical appearance, political perspective or affiliation and/or any other characteristic that can be identified as recognizing or illustrating diversity. Board of Directors & Trustees Our Board of Directors works to further our mission. Officers and board members are elected at our biannual Conventions for a two-year term. Leadership & Staff The League of Women Voters of the United States staff works to promote the League’s mission and work at the national level, and to support over 800 state and local Leagues in their work on League priority issues within the Campaign for Making Democracy Work®. History For 100 years, we have been a nonpartisan, activist, grassroots organization that believes voters should play a critical role in democracy. See what we've been up to over the last century, and see where we're headed for the next. Membership & Local Leagues Our members are passionate activists who support our work in all 50 states and in more than 700 communities. Join us today! Newsroom Check out our latest press statements and news clips about our priorities and our work. Financials & Annual Reports We produce annual reports on our programatic work and provide the latest financial statements about the organization. Ways to Give Your support goes directly to the League's work to protect and defend our democracy. Together we can ensure our elections are free, fair and accessible, protect our environment, and reduce the influence of money in our elections. Press Releases Agreement in LWV Virginia Lawsuit Will Eliminate Signature Witness Requirement (4/28/2020) LWV of Arizona Joins Federal Lawsuit in Support of Electronic Signature Collection (4/28/2020) LWV of North Carolina Seeks to Intervene in Voter Purge Case (4/22/2020) LWV Virginia Files Lawsuit to Protect Absentee Voters During COVID-19 (4/17/2020) LWV of Texas Celebrates Victory in Mail-in Ballot Case (4/16/2020) View all press releases Blog Celebrating 50 Years of Earth Day (4/22/2020) The Census and Coronavirus (4/9/2020) In the Know: The Rise in Voter Purge Litigation (4/7/2020) View all blog posts What You Can Do Sign Up for Email News & Alerts Sign Up Now Demand a Hearing on the For the People Act Stand Up for DC Statehood Demand Action from Congress to Protect the 2020 Election Call Your Senator Today League of Women Voters of the US (LWVUS) Footer menu Contact Us Blog Newsroom Careers Privacy Policy © League of Women Voters League Management