https://www.whitehouse.gov/issues/economy-jobs/page/2/
Economy & Jobs | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Economy & Jobs The economy has come roaring back to life under President Trump. The stock market has hit record high after record high, helping more Americans build wealth and secure their futures. Through needed tax cuts and reform, the Administration will bring jobs back to our country. The President is helping U.S. workers by expanding apprenticeship programs, reforming job training programs, and bringing businesses and educators together to ensure high-quality classroom instruction and on-the-job training. Fact Sheets President Donald J. Trump Is Committed to Supporting Small Businesses Impacted by the Coronavirus Economy & Jobs Mar 23, 2020 Economy & Jobs As Job Creation Exceeds Expectations Again, Women Workers See Further Gains Mar 6, 2020 Executive Orders Executive Order on the Establishment of the Environment Committee for Monitoring and Enforcement Under the USMCA Implementation Act Economy & Jobs Feb 29, 2020 Proclamations Proclamation on National Consumer Protection Week, 2020 Economy & Jobs Feb 28, 2020 Executive Orders Executive Order on the Establishment of the Committee on Trade In Automotive Goods Under Section 202a of the USMCA Implementation Act Economy & Jobs Feb 28, 2020 Fact Sheets The Historic Results Of President Donald J. Trump’s Economic Agenda Economy & Jobs Feb 20, 2020 Economy & Jobs The Trump Economy Benefits Historically-Disadvantaged Americans Feb 20, 2020 Economy & Jobs The ‘Trump Bump’ Is Real Feb 20, 2020 Economy & Jobs 2020 Economic Report of the President Feb 20, 2020 Economy & Jobs President Trump Celebrates Olympics’ Return to America in 2028! Feb 19, 2020 Previous 1 2 3 4 … 70 Next The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search