https://www.whitehouse.gov/issues/economy-jobs/page/3/
Economy & Jobs | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Economy & Jobs The economy has come roaring back to life under President Trump. The stock market has hit record high after record high, helping more Americans build wealth and secure their futures. Through needed tax cuts and reform, the Administration will bring jobs back to our country. The President is helping U.S. workers by expanding apprenticeship programs, reforming job training programs, and bringing businesses and educators together to ensure high-quality classroom instruction and on-the-job training. Remarks Remarks by Vice President Pence at the National Association of Manufacturers Winter 2020 Board of Directors Meeting Economy & Jobs Feb 14, 2020 Remarks Remarks by President Trump at the North Carolina Opportunity Now Summit | Charlotte, NC Economy & Jobs Feb 7, 2020 Fact Sheets President Donald J. Trump Is Committed To Creating Opportunity For All Economy & Jobs Feb 7, 2020 Economy & Jobs Job Market Continues to Crush Expectations in 2020 Feb 7, 2020 Fact Sheets President Donald J. Trump’s Unwavering Commitment To American Workers And Their Families Economy & Jobs Feb 4, 2020 Fact Sheets President Donald J. Trump Is Fighting For Fairer Trade That Benefits American Workers Economy & Jobs Feb 4, 2020 Fact Sheets President Donald J. Trump Has Ushered In An Unprecedented Era Of Economic Prosperity Economy & Jobs Feb 4, 2020 Executive Orders Ensuring Safe & Lawful E-Commerce for US Consumers, Businesses, Government Supply Chains, and Intellectual Property Rights Economy & Jobs Jan 31, 2020 Remarks Remarks by President Trump at a USMCA Celebration with American Workers | Warren, MI Economy & Jobs Jan 30, 2020 Economy & Jobs United States GDP Growth Continues Exceeding Expectations Jan 30, 2020 Previous 1 2 3 4 5 … 70 Next The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search