https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/statement-press-secretary-presidents-travel-norfolk-virginia/
Statement from the Press Secretary on the President’s Travel to Norfolk, Virginia | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Statements & Releases Statement from the Press Secretary on the President’s Travel to Norfolk, Virginia National Security & Defense Issued on: March 26, 2020 Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard All News President Donald J. Trump announced today that he will travel to Norfolk, Virginia, on Saturday, March 28 to bid bon voyage to the hospital ship USNS COMFORT (T-AH-20) as it leaves for New York City to the frontlines of the COVID-19 virus response. The USNS COMFORT will sail well ahead of its originally scheduled departure time to answer America’s call to battle against the global pandemic here at home. At the President’s direction, the Administration announced last week that the USNS COMFORT would be activated and sail to the metropolitan New York area to ease the burden of area hospitals tasked with responding to the coronavirus. Over 1200 medical personnel and critical supplies will be onboard the vessel. They will bring to bear the skills, care, and compassion needed to wage this fight against an invisible enemy. These doctors, nurses, anesthesiologists, x-ray technicians, orderlies, and other medical staff will augment and support New York City’s medical community and conserve hospital capacity by treating some non-COVID-19 patients aboard the USNS COMFORT. Deployment of the USNS COMFORT follows deployment of the USNS MERCY (T-AH-19) earlier this week. USNS MERCY sailed to Los Angeles from Naval Station San Diego, California. Both vessels have a long record of accomplishment in humanitarian responses throughout the western hemisphere, providing aid to our sister republics as well as these great United States. As the USNS COMFORT weighs anchor and leaves Norfolk Naval Station, home to the most powerful fleet in the world, she does so to embark on one of the most important assignments of her storied career—serving the American people in this great hour of need. The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search