https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/memorandum-delegation-functions-31-u-s-c-5302/
Memorandum on the Delegation of Functions Under 31 U.S.C. 5302 | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Presidential Memoranda Memorandum on the Delegation of Functions Under 31 U.S.C. 5302 Budget & Spending Issued on: March 20, 2020 Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard All News MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY SUBJECT: Delegation of Functions Under 31 U.S.C. 5302 By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows: Section 1. Delegation of Authority over the Exchange Stabilization Fund. (a) I hereby delegate the functions and authorities conferred upon the President by section 5302 of title 31, United States Code, to the Secretary of the Treasury for use of the Exchange Stabilization Fund in an aggregate amount of up to $50 billion. (b) The functions and authorities delegated by this section may not be redelegated. Sec. 2. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this memorandum shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect: (i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or (ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. (b) This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations. (c) This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. (d) You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the Federal Register. DONALD J. TRUMP The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search