https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/president-donald-j-trump-announces-intent-nominate-appoint-individuals-key-administration-posts-28/
President Donald J. Trump Announces Intent to Nominate and Appoint Individuals to Key Administration Posts | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Nominations & Appointments President Donald J. Trump Announces Intent to Nominate and Appoint Individuals to Key Administration Posts Budget & Spending Issued on: February 4, 2020 Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard All News Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration: Lorenzo Candelaria of New York, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities. Tony Hammond of Missouri, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation. — Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key positions in his Administration: Isaac Applbaum of California, to be a Member of the Commission on Presidential Scholars. Constantine M. Saab of Virginia, to be a Member of the Commission on Presidential Scholars. William Henry Kirkland III of Georgia, to be a Member of the Commission on Presidential Scholars. Bradley P. Johnson of Virginia, to be a Member of the Commission on Presidential Scholars. Jonathan D. Hiler of Virginia, to be a Member of the Board of Visitors to the United States Naval Academy. The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search