https://www.whitehouse.gov/issues/immigration/#main-content
Immigration | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Immigration The United States must adopt an immigration system that serves the national interest. To restore the rule of law and secure our border, President Trump is committed to constructing a border wall and ensuring the swift removal of unlawful entrants. To protect American workers, the President supports ending chain migration, eliminating the Visa Lottery, and moving the country to a merit-based entry system. These reforms will advance the safety and prosperity of all Americans while helping new citizens assimilate and flourish. Fact Sheets President Donald J. Trump Is Honoring His Commitment to Protect American Workers by Temporarily Pausing Immigration Immigration Apr 22, 2020 Proclamations Proclamation Suspending Entry of Immigrants Who Present Risk to the U.S. Labor Market During the Economic Recovery Following the COVID-19 Outbreak Immigration Apr 22, 2020 Presidential Memoranda Memorandum on Extending the Wind-Down Period for Deferred Enforced Departure for Liberians Immigration Mar 30, 2020 Statements & Releases Statement from the Press Secretary Immigration Mar 11, 2020 Statements & Releases Statement from the Press Secretary Immigration Feb 28, 2020 Statements & Releases Statement from the Press Secretary Immigration Feb 26, 2020 Statements & Releases Statement from the Press Secretary Immigration Feb 22, 2020 Immigration Sanctuaries for Whom? Feb 18, 2020 Statements & Releases Message to the Congress on the Continuation of the National Emergency with Respect to the Southern Border of the United States Immigration Feb 13, 2020 Statements & Releases Text of a Notice on the Continuation of the National Emergency with Respect to the Southern Border of the United States Immigration Feb 13, 2020 Previous 1 2 3 … 24 Next The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search