https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/president-donald-j-trump-honoring-commitment-protect-american-workers-temporarily-pausing-immigration/
President Donald J. Trump Is Honoring His Commitment to Protect American Workers by Temporarily Pausing Immigration | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Fact Sheets President Donald J. Trump Is Honoring His Commitment to Protect American Workers by Temporarily Pausing Immigration Immigration Issued on: April 22, 2020 Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard All News Quote By pausing immigration, we’ll help put unemployed Americans first in line for jobs as America reopens. So important. It would be wrong and unjust for Americans laid off by the virus to be replaced with new immigrant labor flown in from abroad. President Donald J. Trump PROTECTING AMERICAN WORKERS: President Donald J. Trump is taking action to temporarily pause immigration and protect American workers as we confront the coronavirus. President Trump is suspending new immigrant visas to put American communities and workers first as we move toward safely reopening the economy. President Trump has a duty to ensure we help Americans regain their jobs and livelihoods. This is a temporary pause demanded by the crisis we are facing as a Nation. The pause will be in effect for 60 days, and the Administration will continue to monitor the labor market to amend or extend the proclamation if needed. There will be exemptions for medical and other essential workers to combat the outbreak, spouses and minor children of American citizens, and certain other aliens. President Trump is also asking his Administration to review guest worker programs to assess whether additional measures should be taken to protect American workers. HELPING AMERICANS RECOVER: President Trump’s efforts will ensure we continue to put American workers first as we begin to reopen our economy. American workers have been hurt through no fault of their own due to the coronavirus. It would be unfair to allow Americans out of work due to the coronavirus to be replaced by new immigrant labor brought into the United States. Mass migration of low-skilled labor into the United States disproportionately harms historically disadvantaged Americans. African Americans and other minorities, Americans without a college degree, and others are especially harmed by an influx of foreign labor. BACKED BY THE AMERICAN PEOPLE: The American people strongly support common sense efforts to restrict immigration as we confront the coronavirus. Recent polling shows Americans strongly stand behind restricting immigration into the country during this crisis. Nearly 80% of those polled said they favor a temporary pause on immigration into the United States, according to a recent USA Today/Ipsos poll. As we face the challenges posed by coronavirus, a recent Pew Research Center poll found that 81% of Americans see mass immigration as a threat. A recent Scott Rasmussen survey found that 70% of those polled agreed that the Government should place a temporary ban on foreign entry into the United States. Even Democrats and liberal pundits used to warn against mass migration and advocate for protections for American workers. Sen. Bernie Sanders in 2015: “You think we should open the borders and bring in a lot of low-wage workers, or do you think maybe we should try to get jobs for those [American] kids?” Paul Krugman has said “Immigration reduces the wages of domestic workers who compete with immigrants. That’s just supply and demand.” Then-Sen. Barack Obama warned that mass migration “threatens to depress further the wages of blue-collar Americans and put strains on an already overburdened safety net.” The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search