https://www.whitehouse.gov/issues/immigration/page/3/
Immigration | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Immigration The United States must adopt an immigration system that serves the national interest. To restore the rule of law and secure our border, President Trump is committed to constructing a border wall and ensuring the swift removal of unlawful entrants. To protect American workers, the President supports ending chain migration, eliminating the Visa Lottery, and moving the country to a merit-based entry system. These reforms will advance the safety and prosperity of all Americans while helping new citizens assimilate and flourish. Presidential Memoranda Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2020 Immigration Nov 1, 2019 Presidential Memoranda S.J. Res. 54 Veto Message Immigration Oct 15, 2019 Statements & Releases Statement from the Press Secretary Immigration Oct 11, 2019 Fact Sheets Activist Judicial Rulings Block the Administration From Enforcing Our Nation’s Immigration Laws Immigration Oct 11, 2019 Press Briefings Press Briefing by Acting ICE Director Matthew Albence Immigration Oct 10, 2019 Fact Sheets President Donald J. Trump’s Efforts to Combat the Crisis at Our Southern Border Are Delivering Results Immigration Oct 8, 2019 Press Briefings Press Briefing by Acting CBP Commissioner Mark Morgan Immigration Oct 8, 2019 Statements & Releases Statement from the Press Secretary Immigration Sep 28, 2019 Statements & Releases Statement from the Press Secretary Immigration Sep 27, 2019 Fact Sheets President Donald J. Trump’s Humanitarian and Responsible Approach On Refugees Protects the Welfare of American Citizens Immigration Sep 26, 2019 Previous 1 2 3 4 5 … 24 Next The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search