https://www.whitehouse.gov/issues/immigration/page/24/
Immigration | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Immigration The United States must adopt an immigration system that serves the national interest. To restore the rule of law and secure our border, President Trump is committed to constructing a border wall and ensuring the swift removal of unlawful entrants. To protect American workers, the President supports ending chain migration, eliminating the Visa Lottery, and moving the country to a merit-based entry system. These reforms will advance the safety and prosperity of all Americans while helping new citizens assimilate and flourish. Statements & Releases H.R. 3004 – Kate’s Law Immigration Jun 27, 2017 Statements & Releases H.R. 3003 – No Sanctuary for Criminals Act Immigration Jun 27, 2017 Statements & Releases H.R. 2581 – Verify First Act Immigration Jun 13, 2017 Statements & Releases Statement from the Press Secretary on the Decline in Southwest Border Apprehensions Immigration Apr 5, 2017 Presidential Memoranda Memorandum for the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security Immigration Mar 6, 2017 Fact Sheets President Trump is Delivering on Immigration Enforcement for the American People Immigration Feb 28, 2017 Statements & Releases President Donald J. Trump Statement Regarding Recent Executive Order Concerning Extreme Vetting Immigration Jan 29, 2017 Executive Orders Executive Order Protecting the Nation from Foreign Terrorist Entry into the United States Immigration Jan 27, 2017 Executive Orders Executive Order: Border Security and Immigration Enforcement Improvements Immigration Jan 25, 2017 Executive Orders Executive Order: Enhancing Public Safety in the Interior of the United States Immigration Jan 25, 2017 Previous 1 … 23 24 Next The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search