https://faq.coronavirus.gov
Find answers about Coronavirus (COVID-19) - COVID-19 Answers
Find answers about Coronavirus Search for information on COVID-19 Search Top questions What are the symptoms? Should I get tested? How does it spread? Can I get financial help? How do I reduce my risk? Can I travel? How to protect yourself Am I at risk? Why do you need to wear cloth face coverings? How can I manage anxiety and stress? View all questions about How to protect yourself What to do if you feel sick What are the symptoms of COVID-19? Should I get tested? What should I do if someone in my house gets sick with COVID-19? View all questions about What to do if you feel sick Symptoms and testing Should I be tested for COVID-19? Where can I get tested for COVID-19? How are people tested for COVID-19? View all questions about Symptoms and testing » How it spreads How does the virus spread? What is community spread? What is the source of the virus? View all questions about How it spreads » Traveling Should I cancel my international trip? What happens if there is a sick passenger on my flight? What if I recently traveled and get sick? View all questions about Traveling » Keeping your home safe What steps can my family take to reduce our risk of getting COVID-19? How can my family and I prepare for COVID-19? Should I use soap and water or a hand sanitizer to protect against COVID-19? View all questions about Keeping your home safe » Financial help for workers and families Who is eligible for the economic impact payment? Is the government delaying Tax Day? How will the IRS know where to send my payment? View all questions about Financial help for workers and families » Parents and children Are children more at-risk? How should parents talk to children about COVID-19? Are the symptoms of COVID-19 different in children than in adults? View all questions about Parents and children » Load more questions Pregnancy How can pregnant women protect themselves from getting COVID-19? If a pregnant woman has COVID-19 during pregnancy, will it hurt the baby? Can COVID-19 be passed from a mother to child? View all questions about Pregnancy » Food safety and access Are food products produced in the United States or other countries affected by COVID-19 a risk for the spread of COVID-19? Can I get the coronavirus from food, food packaging, or food containers and preparation area? Is the U.S. food supply safe? View all questions about Food safety and access » Support for businesses Can the Small Business Administration help me with other assistance? What capital assistance is available to small business owners now? Where should a small business go to find help in response to the Coronavirus pandemic? View all questions about Support for businesses » Medications Are there any vaccines to prevent or medicines to treat COVID-19? Am I at risk for COVID-19 from taking FDA-approved drugs made in China? Are antibiotics effective in preventing or treating COVID-19? View all questions about Medications » Community events Is there information that I can share with staff and attendees about COVID-19? What steps should I take if an attendee or staff person develops symptoms of COVID-19 while at my event? What should I consider when deciding to postpone or cancel an event? View all questions about Community events » K-12 schools and childcare program administrators How should my school prepare when there is no community transmission in our area? What should I do if the suspected sick student or staff member is confirmed to have COVID-19? Should my school screen students for COVID-19? View all questions about K-12 schools and childcare program administrators » Water transmission Where can I find additional information about water transmission and COVID-19? Can the COVID-19 virus spread through sewerage systems? If my utility has issued a Boil Water Advisory, can I still use tap water to wash my hands? View all questions about Water transmission » Rumor control Are older people and those with existing health conditions the only ones at risk? Is FEMA deploying the military? Is the government sending everyone money? View all questions about Rumor control » How to protect yourself How can I help protect myself? What should I do if I had close contact with someone who has COVID-19? Am I at risk for COVID-19 in the United States? View all questions about How to protect yourself » Underlying conditions Who is at higher risk for serious illness from COVID-19? Are people with disabilities at higher risk? How were the underlying conditions selected? View all questions about Underlying conditions » Retirement communities and independent living facilities What should administrators do if a resident or staff shows symptoms of COVID-19? What should administrators do if there is a case of COVID-19 in our facility? Does CDC have recommendations for cleaning and disinfecting surfaces? View all questions about Retirement communities and independent living facilities » Animals Are pets from a shelter safe to adopt? Do I need to get my pet tested for COVID-19? Should I be concerned about imported animals or animal products? View all questions about Animals » About COVID-19 How can people help stop stigma related to COVID-19? Why might someone blame or avoid individuals and groups (create stigma) because of COVID-19? What is a novel coronavirus? View all questions about About COVID-19 » Funerals Am I at risk if I go to a funeral or visitation service for someone who died of COVID-19? Am I at risk if I touch the body of someone who died of COVID-19? What should I do if a family member dies of COVID-19 while overseas? View all questions about Funerals » CDC.gov WhiteHouse.gov FEMA.gov Coronavirus.gov HHS.gov Copyright Policy Privacy Policy