https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/if-you-are-sick/steps-when-sick.html
What to Do If You Are Sick | CDC
Skip directly to site content Skip directly to page options Skip directly to A-Z link Self-Checker Coronavirus Self-Checker × Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. CDC twenty four seven. Saving Lives, Protecting People Search Search Icon Close Icon × Coronavirus Coronavirus All CDC Submit For a full list of topics: All A-Z Topics Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Coronavirus Disease 2019 Section Navigation CDC Home Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Syndicate What to Do If You Are Sick Other Languages Español简体中文Tiếng Việt한국어 Other Languages Minus Related Pages If you have a fever, cough or other symptoms, you might have COVID-19. Most people have mild illness and are able to recover at home. If you think you may have been exposed to COVID-19, contact your healthcare provider immediately. Keep track of your symptoms. If you have an emergency warning sign (including trouble breathing), get medical attention right away. chat icon Self-Checker A guide to help you make decisions and seek appropriate medical care Steps to help prevent the spread of COVID-19 if you are sick Follow the steps below: If you are sick with COVID-19 or think you might have COVID-19, follow the steps below to care for yourself and to help protect other people in your home and community. house user icon Stay home except to get medical care Stay home. Most people with COVID-19 have mild illness and can recover at home without medical care. Do not leave your home, except to get medical care. Do not visit public areas. Take care of yourself. Get rest and stay hydrated. Take over-the-counter medicines, such as acetaminophen, to help you feel better. Stay in touch with your doctor. Call before you get medical care. Be sure to get care if you have trouble breathing, or have any other emergency warning signs, or if you think it is an emergency. Avoid public transportation, ride-sharing, or taxis. bed icon Separate yourself from other people As much as possible, stay in a specific room and away from other people and pets in your home. Also, you should use a separate bathroom, if available. If you need to be around other people or animals in or outside of the home, wear a cloth face covering. See COVID-19 and Animals if you have questions about pets. temperature high icon Monitor your symptoms Common symptoms of COVID-19 include fever, cough or other symptoms. Trouble breathing is a more serious symptom that means you should get medical attention. Follow care instructions from your healthcare provider and local health department. Your local health authorities may give instructions on checking your symptoms and reporting information. When to Seek Medical Attention If you have any of these emergency warning signs* for COVID-19 get medical attention immediately: Trouble breathing Persistent pain or pressure in the chest New confusion or inability to arouse Bluish lips or face *This list is not all inclusive. Please consult your medical provider for any other symptoms that are severe or concerning to you. Call 911 if you have a medical emergency: Notify the operator that you have, or think you might have, COVID-19. If possible, put on a cloth face covering before medical help arrives. mobile icon Call ahead before visiting your doctor Call ahead. Many medical visits for routine care are being postponed or done by phone or telemedicine. If you have a medical appointment that cannot be postponed, call your doctor’s office, and tell them you have or may have COVID-19. This will help the office protect themselves and other patients. head side mask icon If you are sick wear a cloth covering over your nose and mouth You should wear a cloth face covering, over your nose and mouth if you must be around other people or animals, including pets (even at home). You don’t need to wear the cloth face covering if you are alone. If you can’t put on a cloth face covering (because of trouble breathing for example), cover your coughs and sneezes in some other way. Try to stay at least 6 feet away from other people. This will help protect the people around you. Note: During the COVID-19 pandemic, medical grade facemasks are reserved for healthcare workers and some first responders. You may need to improvise a cloth face covering using a scarf or bandana. box tissue icon Cover your coughs and sneezes Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue when you cough or sneeze. Throw away used tissues in a lined trash can. Immediately wash your hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. If soap and water are not available, clean your hands with an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol. hands wash icon Clean your hands often Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. This is especially important after blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing; going to the bathroom; and before eating or preparing food. Use hand sanitizer if soap and water are not available. Use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol, covering all surfaces of your hands and rubbing them together until they feel dry. Soap and water are the best option, especially if hands are visibly dirty. Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands. Handwashing Tips no icon Avoid sharing personal household items Do not share dishes, drinking glasses, cups, eating utensils, towels, or bedding with other people in your home. Wash these items thoroughly after using them with soap and water or put in the dishwasher. cleaning icon Clean all “high-touch” surfaces everyday Clean and disinfect high-touch surfaces in your “sick room” and bathroom. Let someone else clean and disinfect surfaces in common areas, but not your bedroom and bathroom. If a caregiver or other person needs to clean and disinfect a sick person’s bedroom or bathroom, they should do so on an as-needed basis. The caregiver/other person should wear a mask and wait as long as possible after the sick person has used the bathroom. High-touch surfaces include phones, remote controls, counters, tabletops, doorknobs, bathroom fixtures, toilets, keyboards, tablets, and bedside tables. Clean and disinfect areas that may have blood, stool, or body fluids on them. Use household cleaners and disinfectants. Clean the area or item with soap and water or another detergent if it is dirty. Then, use a household disinfectant. Be sure to follow the instructions on the label to ensure safe and effective use of the product. Many products recommend keeping the surface wet for several minutes to ensure germs are killed. Many also recommend precautions such as wearing gloves and making sure you have good ventilation during use of the product. Most EPA-registered household disinfectants should be effective. A full list of disinfectants can be found hereexternal icon. Complete Disinfection Guidance house leave icon When it’s safe to be around others: ending home isolation People with COVID-19 or its symptoms who: are recovering at home (or other non-hospital setting), and will not be tested to determine if they are no longer contagious can leave their “sick room” and home when: They have had no fever for at least 72 hours (that is three full days of no fever) without the use of medicine that reduces fevers AND Other symptoms have improved (for example, when their cough or shortness of breath have improved) AND At least 7 days have passed since their symptoms first appeared People with COVID-19 or its symptoms who: are recovering at home (or other non-hospital setting), and will be tested to determine if they are no longer contagious can leave their “sick room” and home when: They no longer have a fever (without the use of medicine that reduces fevers) AND Other symptoms have improved (for example, when their cough or shortness of breath have improved) AND They received two negative tests in a row, 24 hours apart People who DID NOT have COVID-19 symptoms, but tested positive who: are self-isolating at home (or other non-hospital setting) can leave their “sick room” and home when: At least 7 days have passed since the date of the first positive test AND They continue to have no symptoms (no cough or shortness of breath) since the test For 3 more days, this group of people should continue to limit contact (stay 6 feet or more away from others) and wear a face covering for their nose and mouth when other people are present (including at home). For ALL people When leaving the home, keep a distance of 6 feet from others and wear a cloth face covering when around other people. Follow guidance provided by the healthcare provider and local health department. The decision to stop home isolation will be made in consultation with their healthcare provider and state and local health departments. Local decisions depend on local circumstances. Find more information on when to end home isolation. For any additional questions about your care, contact your healthcare provider or state or local health department. medical icon For healthcare professionals There is no specific antiviral treatment recommended for COVID-19. People with COVID-19 should receive supportive care to help relieve symptoms. For severe cases, treatment should include care to support vital organ functions. Evaluating and Testing Patients for COVID-19 Infection Prevention and Control in Healthcare Settings Discontinuing Isolation Guidance Print Resources Caring for yourself at home: 10 things to manage your health What you can do if you have possible or confirmed COVID-19: English pdf icon[1 page] Spanishpdf icon Chinesepdf icon Vietnamesepdf icon Koreanpdf icon More information Travelers Households People Who Need Extra Precautions People Who Are Sick Caregivers Schools Businesses Healthcare Professionals Health Departments Laboratories ASL Video Series: Use the Coronavirus Self Checker Top of Page Page last reviewed: April 28, 2020 Content source: National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases (NCIRD), Division of Viral Diseases homeCoronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Symptoms Testingplus icon Testing Overview Diagnostic Testing Serologic (Antibody) Testing Prevent Getting Sickplus icon How It Spreads Protect Yourself Cloth Face Coversplus icon Recommendations for Cloth Face Covers Cloth Face Covers FAQs Cleaning Your Homeplus icon Detailed Disinfection Guidance Social Distancing Daily Life & Copingplus icon Household Checklistplus icon Detailed Planning Guidance Living in Close Quarters Living in Shared Housing Running Errands Stress & Copingplus icon Reducing Stigma Stop the Spread of Rumors Caring for Childrenplus icon Talking to Children Visiting Parks and Recreational Facilities If You Have Animals If You Are Sickplus icon What to Do If You Are Sick Caring for Someone People Who Need Extra Precautionsplus icon People Who Are At Higher Riskplus icon Older Adults People with Asthma People with HIV At Risk for Severe Illness Others At Riskplus icon People with Disabilities Homelessness Pregnancy & Breastfeeding Racial and Ethnic Minority Groups What You Can Do Frequently Asked Questions Travelplus icon Travel in the US Travel Health Notices Returning from International Travel Cruise Ship Travelplus icon What CDC is Doing for Cruise Traveler Travel FAQs Travelers Prohibited from Entry to the US Communication Resources for Travelplus icon Road Travel Toolkit for Transportation Partners Cases, Data, & Surveillanceplus icon COVIDView Weekly Summaryplus icon Purpose and Methods Past Weekly Reports Cases in the USplus icon Cases & Deaths by County Previous U.S. COVID-19 Case Data Testing in the US Forecasting in the US World Map Data Visualization Serology Surveillance Strategy Assessing Risk Factors FAQ Data and Surveillance Communities, Schools & Workplacesplus icon Critical Workers Disinfecting Your Facilityplus icon Detailed Guidance for Disinfecting Facilities Disinfect Your Non-Emergency Vehicle Schools & Child Careplus icon Guidance for Schools & Child Care FAQs for Administrators Checklist for Teachers and Parents Open Child Care Programs Colleges & Universitiesplus icon Interim Guidance for Administrators of US Institutions of Higher Education Guidance for Student Foreign Travel for Institutions of Higher Education FAQs for Administrators Businessesplus icon Conserving and Extending Filtering Facepiece Respirator Supply Interim Guidance for Businesses and Employers Small Businesses FAQs for Businesses Airline Catering Kitchen Workers Airport Catering Truck Drivers Airline Customer Service and Gate Agents Airport Baggage and Cargo Handlers Airport Custodial Staff Airport Passenger Assistance Workers Aircraft Maintenance Airport Retail or Food Service Workers Bus Transit Operators Grocery and Food Retail Workers Meat and Poultry Packing Industry Rail Transit Operators Transit Maintenance Workers Transit Station Workers Mail & Parcel Delivery Drivers Rideshare, Taxi, Limo, or Other Drivers-For-Hire Food & Grocery Pick-up & Delivery Drivers Shared or Congregate Housing Facilitiesplus icon Guidance for Shared or Congregate Housing Gatherings & Community Eventsplus icon Interim Guidance for Event Planners Election Polling Locations FAQs for Event First Responders and Law Enforcementplus icon Information for Law Enforcement Personnel Information for Firefighters & EMS Providers FAQs for Law Enforcement Community- and Faith-Based Organizationsplus icon Interim Guidance for Community and Faith Leaders Checklist to Get Your Organization Ready FAQs for Faith-Based Organizations Parks & Recreational Facilitiesplus icon Guidance for Park Administrators Homeless Populationplus icon Interim Guidance on People Experiencing Unsheltered Homelessness Interim Guidance for Homeless Service Providers Screening for Symptoms FAQs for Homeless Shelters Retirement Communitiesplus icon Guidance for Retirement Communities Checklist to Stay Healthy FAQs for Administrators Correctional and Detention Facilitiesplus icon Guidance for Correctional & Detention Facilities FAQs for Administrators, Staff, Incarcerated People & Family Members Tribal Communitiesplus icon Funeral and Burial Services Social Distancing & Coping Veterinarians & Veterinary Staff Healthcare Professionalsplus icon Evaluation & Testing Clinical Careplus icon Clinical Care Guidance Therapeutic Options Underlying Conditions Ending Home Isolationplus icon Ending Home Isolation for Immunocompromised Patients Criteria for Return to Work for Healthcare Personnel with Confirmed or Suspected COVID-19 (Interim Guidance) Caring for Patients at Home Discharging Hospitalized Patients Caring for Children Caring for Pregnant Women Care for Breastfeeding Women Telephone Response Guide Infection Controlplus icon Infection Control Guidance FAQ on Infection Control Using PPE Hand Hygiene Alternate Care Sites Ambulatory Care Settings Assisted Living Facilities Blood & Plasma Facilities Dental Settings Dialysis Facilitiesplus icon Patient Screening at Dialysis Facilities Dialysis in Acute Care Patients on Home Dialysis Nursing Homes & Long-Term Care Facilitiesplus icon Key Strategies for Long-term Care Facilities Pharmacies Postmortem Guidance Optimize PPE Supplyplus icon PPE Burn Rate Calculator Eye Protection Gowns Facemasks N95 Respiratorsplus icon N95 Respirator Summary Stockpiled N95 Respirators Decontamination & Reuse of Filtering Facepiece Respirators Powered Air Purifying Respirators Elastomeric Respirators Ventilators FAQ About PPE Potential Exposure at Workplus icon Public Health Activity Guidance Return-to-Work Criteria First Responder Guidance Preparedness Toolsplus icon Healthcare Provider Checklist Steps Healthcare Facilities Can Take Healthcare Facility Guidance COVID-19Surge Tool Hospital Preparedness Tool Nursing Home & Long-Term Care Facility Checklist Get Your Clinic Ready Mitigating Staff Shortages Print Resources Guidance for U.S. Facilities Operational Considerations for Non-US Settingsplus icon Infection Control in Non-US Facilities Triaging Sick Patients Identifying Sick Workers and Inpatients Managing Visitors Managing Exposed Healthcare Workers Training for Healthcare Professionals FAQs Health Departmentsplus icon Support for Health Departmentsplus icon Key Resources Infection Control Surveillance & Data Analytics Laboratory Capacity Contact Tracing Principles of Contact Tracing Community Mitigation Staffing Resources Financial Resources Communication Materials Response Corps Public Health Communicators Investigating Cases in Homeless Shelters Evaluating PUIs Residential Reporting a Confirmed Case Travel-Associated Exposures Community-Related Exposures Pandemic Preparedness Resources Households with Petsplus icon Animal Testing Criteria COVID-19 Publications Environmental Health Practitioners Cooling Centers Guidance for Building Water Systems Water and COVID-19 FAQs Laboratoriesplus icon FAQs for Laboratories CDC Lab Workplus icon Diagnostic Testing Serology Testing CDC Grows SARS-CoV-2 Guidelines for Clinical Specimens Lab Biosafety Guidelines Laboratory Biosafety and COVID-19: Questions and Answers Requests for Diagnostic Tools and Virus Research Use Only Real-Time RT-PCR Primer and Probe Information CDC's Responseplus icon By the Numbers CDC in Action Situation Summary Communication Resourcesplus icon Guidance Documents Social Media Toolkit Buttons and Badges Print Resources Public Service Announcements (PSAs) Videosplus icon Downloadable Videos What's New email_03Get Email Updates To receive email updates about COVID-19, enter your email address: Email Address What's this? Submit Spanish Communication Resources Social Media Toolkit Learn More HAVE QUESTIONS? Visit CDC-INFO Call 800-232-4636 Email CDC-INFO Open 24/7 CDC INFORMATION About CDC Jobs Funding Policies File Viewers & Players Privacy FOIA No Fear Act OIG Nondiscrimination Accessibility CONNECT WITH CDC Facebook Twitter Youtube Instagram Syndicate CDC TV RSS Email U.S. Department of Health & Human Services USA.gov CDC Website Exit Disclaimer external icon LANGUAGE ASSISTANCE Español 繁體中文 Tiếng Việt 한국어 Tagalog Русский العربية Kreyòl Ayisyen Français Polski Português Italiano Deutsch 日本語 فارسی English Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email SAS stats Exit Notification/Disclaimer Policy Close Links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the CDC website. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website. Linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by CDC or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website. You will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link. CDC is not responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website. For more information on CDC's web notification policies, see Website Disclaimers. Cancel Continue