https://www.fema.gov/coronavirus/best-practices
Coronavirus Emergency Management Best Practices | FEMA.gov
Skip to main content Navigation × Close Navigation Enter Search Term(s): Hurricane Maria Public Assistance: Local, State, Tribal and Non-Profit Training About the Agency Hazard Mitigation Assistance National Mitigation Framework News Desk Contacts Preliminary Damage Assessment Reports Region III Region VI Individual Disaster Assistance Protecting Your Businesses Region IX Assistance To Firefighters Grant Program Publications & Resources Mobile App Testimony & Speeches Official Accounts Presidential Policy Directive 8 (Learn about PPD-8) Social Media Volunteer & Donate Responsibly Text Messages Federal Interagency Operational Plans Whole Community Technological Hazards Division - Contacts Accessible ASL Videos National Preparedness Goal National Preparedness Report National Preparedness System Blog Careers FEMA Earthquake Contacts Region VII DHS Center for Faith & Opportunity Initiatives Grant Case Studies Children and Disasters Climate Change Community Resilience Indicators and National-Level Measures: A Draft Interagency Concept Contact Us Continuity National Preparedness Resource Library Data Visualization Disaster Assistance Reports COVID-19 Disaster Declarations COVID-19 Fact Sheets & Guidance COVID-19 Guidance COVID-19 News Releases COVID-19 Response in Action Media Gallery Disability FEMA Qualification System Disaster Declarations Disaster Emergency Communications Building Resilient Infrastructure and Communities (BRIC) Coronavirus (COVID-19) Response Coronavirus Best Practices Coronavirus (COVID-19) FAQ Coronavirus Rumor Control How To Help Reference Library Disaster Recovery Centers Document and Resource Library eGrants Application Process Email Updates Emergency Management Agencies Emergency Management Institute Environmental Planning and Historic Preservation Program Exercise Fact Sheets Captain R. Webster Finance Center Lifelines National Dam Safety Review Board Members Pub 1 Region I: CT, ME, MA, NH, RI, VT Training Programs Hurricane Dorian Cybersecurity Disaster Recovery Reform Act of 2018 National Business Emergency Operations Center National Level Exercise Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Emergency Management Training Opportunities Emergency Planning Exercises Rulemaking and Regulations Shaken Fury 2019 Tech Sector Collaboration Success Stories What Items Are Covered By Disaster Assistance? Flood Hazard Mapping Flood Insurance Flood Map Service Center Grant Programs Directorate Grants Management Modernization Program Hazard Mitigation Planning High Water Mark Initiative Home How to Make a Payment to FEMA Hurricane Florence Hurricane Michael Hurricane Harvey Transitional Shelter Assistance Hurricane Irma Podcast Chemical Stockpile Emergency Preparedness Program Incident Management Assistance Teams Accessible ASL Videos Mission Areas Independent Study Program Individual and Community Preparedness Division Individual Assistance Program Tools Fire Management Assistance Grants Integrated Public Alert & Warning System Multimedia Library (Photos, Video, and Audio) National Exercise Program National Disaster Recovery Framework National Incident Management System News Releases OpenFEMA Protecting Homes Protecting Our Communities Public Assistance Appeals Database Recovery Resources Region II Region IV Region V Region VIII Region X Required Notices Reservist Program Safer, Stronger, Protected Homes & Communities States Tribal Unified Federal Environmental and Historic Preservation Review Urban Search and Rescue U.S. Coast Guard Retiree to FEMA Reservist Initiative Voluntary, Faith-Based, & Community-Based Organizations Search × Close Search Enter Search Term(s): Languages × Close Languages English Español Français Ελληνικά العربية 简体中文 Deutsch Haitian Creole עברית हिन्दी Italiano 日本語 한국어 Polski Português Русский Tagalog ภาษาไทย اردو Tiếng Việt Yiddish Coronavirus (COVID-19) Response Patients & Healthcare Workers State, Local, Tribal & Territorial Governments Economic Support & Recovery Understanding Data & Prioritizing Resources News & Media Gallery How to Help Rumor Control Coronavirus Best Practices FEMA Careers Main Content Coronavirus Emergency Management Best Practices COVID-19 is an emerging, rapidly evolving situation. We've compiled the best practices and lessons learned that communities have already faced fighting COVID-19. This collection is not exhaustive, but we will continue to add content and highlight key areas where communities can benefit from learning. We encourage all emergency managers to review our latest COVID-19 fact sheets for details on federal assistance programs and guidelines. Organizations can email best practices or lessons learned to fema-cipsupport@fema.dhs.gov. FEMA does not endorse any non-government entities, organizations, or services. Claims made by third parties have not been independently verified by FEMA. STAY INFORMED Get the latest public health information on coronavirus at www.coronavirus.gov. Community Innovations Many communities are responding to COVID-19 in innovative ways that highlight the best of American ingenuity. Companies are combatting fraud and misinformation online with automated responses, public service announcements and free ad space for health organizations. Owners of a local food truck in Grand Rapids, CO are serving meals to semi-truck drivers delivering vital supplies. Cities are setting up centrally located sites to provide one-stop shops for COVID-19 related information and resources. Read more community innovation stories. Last Updated: 4/22/2020 Helping People Sustaining Nutritional Needs for At-Risk Individuals (New) Millions of Americans rely on a range of at-home and community-based food services. Sustain and expand home delivered meal programs to meet nutritional needs of at-risk individuals. Integrated Public Alert and Warning System (IPAWS) IPAWS provides a medium for jurisdictions to disseminate life safety information to their residents during COVID-19. Ensuring Civil Rights (Spanish) | View More Languages Civil rights laws and legal authorities remain in effect during emergencies. All governments and disaster assistance organizations must anticipate and attend to civil rights concerns during COVID-19 response and recovery. Crisis Counseling People across the nation are experiencing unprecedented conditions and it is important for them to have the resources to maintain their mental health. Community Emergency Response Team The Community Emergency Response Team (CERT) program has brought volunteers from local communities to help those around them by providing services and supporting healthcare systems during COVID-19 operations. Other Resources Feeding in COVID-19 Congregate Shelters (American Red Cross) Sheltering in COVID-19 Affected Areas (American Red Cross) COVID-19 Response and Homelessness: An Action and Resource Guide (HUD) Government Operations All-Hazards Incident Management Team Association Considerations All-Hazards Incident Management Teams provide staffing and coordination roles that can augment jurisdictional operations. 9-1-1 Centers As COVID-19 has led to increased 9-1-1 calls, jurisdictions may need to think through nontraditional means of supporting callers and addressing the additional requirements. State, Local, Territory and Tribal Public Information During COVID-19 operations, government communications to residents is important and it is necessary to consider a variety of accessible mediums. Continuity of Operations Continuity of Operations (COOP) is important to maintaining essential functions. It’s important to be flexible in your COOP procedures during COVID-19. Use of the National Guard The National Guard serves as an importance resource to states and local communities and has stepped into a variety of roles to help during COVID-19 operations. Casualty Management in a Pandemic Given pandemic-related social distancing and the effects to the population from COVID-19, casualty management planning is important for jurisdictions to consider as part of their operational response. Other Resources Risk Management for Novel Coronavirus (CISA) State Level Information for Essential Workers Seeking Child Care (HHS) Guidance for First Responders on Patient Privacy during COVID-19 (HHS) Guidance on Preparing Workplaces for COVID-19 (DOL) Private Sector and Infrastructure Food Store Best Practices The InfraGard National Disaster Resilience Council Members share this compilation of best practices for Food Stores given the important role they play in the nation. Commercial Truckers and the Supply Chain The supply chain is dependent on the commercial trucking industry. Maintaining and sustaining their functionality is important to the transport of resources across the country. Recovery Planning and Implementation Financial Management The recently released Disaster Financial Management Guide can help a jurisdiction successfully use all available federal resources for disaster recovery, including the COVID-19 Supplemental Funding. Environmental and Historic Preservation Identify emergency protective measures for COVID-19 that may adversely affect natural, historic, and/or archaeological resources. Learn how to comply with environmental and historic preservation laws, regulations, and executive orders. Economic Recovery There are significant short and long-term actions needed to stabilize and re-invigorate the economy due to COVID-19. Medical Supplies and Equipment Preserving Personal Protective Equipment A summary of best practices for sustaining personal protective equipment (PPE) while ensuring workers are protected during the COVID-19 pandemic response. Medical Assistance Request Considerations Jurisdictions should consider what actions they can take to reduce the spread of COVID-19 and creatively think about how they can meet resource requirements. Other Resources Key Strategies to Prepare for COVID-19 in Long-term Care Facilities (CDC) ASPR TRACIE COVID-19 Information Exchange (HHS) Strategies for Optimizing the Supply of N95 Respirators (CDC) Optimizing Ventilator Use during the COVID-19 Pandemic (HHS) Rapid Expert Consultation on Crisis Standards of Carex (HHS) Guidance on COVID-19 (CDC) Last Updated: 04/28/2020 - 17:11 Skip footer content. Share This Page. Home About Us Download Plug-ins Doing Business with FEMA Privacy Policy Accessibility FOIA No Fear Act Data Office of the Inspector General Strategic Plan Whitehouse.gov DHS.gov Ready.gov USA.gov DisasterAssistance.gov Official website of the Department of Homeland Security End of web page.