https://support.twitter.com/groups/31-twitter-basics/topics/104-welcome-to-twitter-support/articles/215585-twitter-101-how-should-i-get-started-using-twitter
Getting started
Open menu Help Center Help topics Using Twitter Managing your account Safety and security Rules and policies Guides Getting started New user FAQ Glossary A safer Twitter Contact us Search Go to Twitter Sign out Sign in Search this site Search Getting started Twitter is happening. Follow everything from breaking news and entertainment, to sports, politics, and everyday interests. Then, join the conversation. Sports Get real-time updates on every goal, touchdown, basket, home run, victory, defeat, unbelievable game-changing play. News Follow news as it breaks — wherever it breaks. Events Pop into an event from anywhere in the world by streaming it LIVE; and then talk about it with other fans as it's happening. tweet Tweet It all begins with a Tweet. Join or start any conversation in the world with a simple Tweet. Find more tips about posting a Tweet. retweet Retweet See something you like? Retweet it to spread the word instantly. Read more about Retweeting another Tweet. follow Follow Never miss an update from the people that matter to you. Building your timeline all starts with a follow. search Search Wondering what something is all about? Search and see the conversation unfold live. Find more tips in our Using Twitter search article. hashtag Hashtag Wondering what everyone’s talking about? Click on a hashtag and find out. Hashtags connect Tweets that talk about the same thing in one place. Learn more about how to use hashtags. Join Twitter today Sign up Scroll to top About Company Advocacy Safety Blog Brand Resources Careers Investors Business About Twitter Ads Targeting Analytics Ads support Business blog Advertise Developers Documentation Forums Communities Developer blog Engineering blog Help Center Using Twitter Managing your account Safety and security Rules and policies Contact us Marketing Insights Success Stories Solutions Collections Marketing blog Twitter Flight School © 2020 Twitter, Inc. Cookies Privacy Terms and Conditions English Help Center English Español 日本語 한국어 Português Deutsch Türkçe Français Italiano العربيّة Nederlands Bahasa Indonesia Русский हिंदी By using Twitter’s services you agree to our Cookies Use. We use cookies for purposes including analytics, personalisation, and ads. OK