https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Flag_of_the_United_States.svg
File:Flag of the United States.svg - Wikipedia
File:Flag of the United States.svg From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search File File history File usage Metadata Size of this PNG preview of this SVG file: 800 × 421 pixels. Other resolutions: 320 × 168 pixels | 640 × 337 pixels | 1,024 × 539 pixels | 1,280 × 674 pixels | 1,235 × 650 pixels. Original file ‎(SVG file, nominally 1,235 × 650 pixels, file size: 899 bytes) This is a local copy of an image on Commons, uploaded to ensure protection because it is one of the 100 most-used files on the English Wikipedia. See the description page on Commons for more information about this file. The uploader or another editor requests that a local copy of this file be kept. This image or media file is available on the Wikimedia Commons as File:Flag of the United States.svg. While the license of this file may be compliant with the Wikimedia Commons, an editor has requested that the local copy be kept too. This file does not meet CSD F8, and should not be tagged as a Commons duplicate. If you desire to nominate it for deletion, notify the tagging editor. License[edit] (Automatically detected from file categories on Commons at 03:35, 3 October 2011 (UTC)) This image is ineligible for copyright and therefore is in the public domain, because it consists entirely of information that is common property and contains no original authorship. PD Public domain false false This work is in the public domain in the United States because it is a work of the United States Federal Government under the terms of Title 17, Chapter 1, Section 105 of the US Code. See Copyright. Note: This only applies to works of the Federal Government and not to the work of any individual U.S. state, territory, commonwealth, county, municipality, or any other subdivision. This template also does not apply to postage stamp designs published by the United States Postal Service since 1978. (See 206.02(b) of Compendium II: Copyright Office Practices). PD Public domain false false This image shows a flag, a coat of arms, a seal or some other official insignia. The use of such symbols is restricted in many countries. These restrictions are independent of the copyright status. This tag does not indicate the copyright status or the source of the attached work. A normal copyright tag, a source (and a detailed non-free use rationale, if necessary) are still required. See Wikipedia:Copyrights and Wikipedia:Uploading images for more information. File history Click on a date/time to view the file as it appeared at that time. Date/Time Thumbnail Dimensions User Comment current 16:10, 18 November 2015 1,235 × 650 (899 bytes) MSGJ (talk | contribs) sync with image on commons, per request 03:35, 3 October 2011 1,235 × 650 (1 KB) Anomie (talk | contribs) {{Keep local high-risk|reason=it is one of the 100 most-used files on the English Wikipedia}} ==License== :''(Automatically detected from file categories on Commons at ~~~~~)'' {{PD-ineligible}} {{insignia}} You cannot overwrite this file. File usage The following file is a duplicate of this file (more details): File:Flag of the United States.svg from Commons More than 100 pages use this file. The following list shows the first 100 pages that use this file only. A full list is available. AFC Ajax AIM-120 AMRAAM AIM-7 Sparrow AK-47 AOL AZ Alkmaar Aachen Abdulaziz al-Omari Aberdeen, South Dakota Abraham Lincoln Abu Sayyaf Academy Awards Acapulco Adrian Lamo Advanced Micro Devices Afghanistan African Americans Afrikaans Agriculture Ajaccio Akira Kurosawa Al-Qaeda Alabama Alameda, California Alaska Albert Pike Alberta Albion, Michigan Alcobaça, Portugal Alexandria Alexandria, Indiana Alexandria, Louisiana Alford plea Allosaurus Ally McBeal Almond American (word) American Chinese cuisine American English American Film Institute American Registry for Internet Numbers American Sign Language American cuisine Ames, Iowa Amsterdam Andersonville, Georgia Andre Agassi Andrew Jackson Andrew Johnson Angolan Armed Forces Ankara Ann Arbor, Michigan Anna Kournikova Antarctic Treaty System Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty Antimony Apatosaurus Apollo program Apple Inc. Arable land Arabs Arcadia 2001 Area 51 Arkansas Armed Forces of Armenia Arsenal F.C. Asian Development Bank Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States Aston Martin Astoria, Oregon Astronaut Aswan Athens Atlanta Audi Austin, Texas Azerbaijani Armed Forces Comparison of American and British English Economy of Angola Economy of Azerbaijan Foreign relations of Angola Foreign relations of Armenia Foreign relations of Azerbaijan Geography of Alabama List of governors of Alabama Talk:ANZUS Talk:AT&T Corporation Talk:Abacus Talk:Abraham Lincoln Talk:Ada (programming language) Talk:Advanced Encryption Standard Talk:Affidavit Talk:Alabama Talk:American football Talk:American political scandals Talk:Apocalypse Now Talk:Apollo program Talk:Arabic Talk:Arbitration in the United States Talk:Arizona Diamondbacks Metadata This file contains additional information, probably added from the digital camera or scanner used to create or digitize it. If the file has been modified from its original state, some details may not fully reflect the modified file. Width 1235 Height 650 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=File:Flag_of_the_United_States.svg&oldid=770664689" Categories: United States government images Wikipedia images of insignia Hidden categories: Wikipedia fully-protected files Wikipedia files on Wikimedia Commons for which a local copy has been requested to be kept Public domain files ineligible for copyright All free media Files with no machine-readable description Files with no machine-readable author Files with no machine-readable source Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces File Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Print/export Download as PDF Languages This page was last edited on 16 March 2017, at 20:47 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view