https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portal:United_States
Portal:United States - Wikipedia
Portal:United States From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Portal maintenance status: (October 2019) This portal needs upgrading. The notes below may contain further details. This portal needs updating with new content. The notes below may contain further details. This portal has minor issues in need of editor attention. The notes below may contain further details. This portal's subpages have been checked by an editor, and are needed. Additional notes: At least one article is out of date. All article subpages should be at least checked and preferably converted to transclusion Please take care when editing, especially if using automated editing software. Learn how to update the maintenance information here. Wikipedia's portal for exploring content related to United States Portal topics Activities Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology Random portal edit Introduction Shortcut P:US The United States of America is a federal republic of 50 states, a capital district, and a few other territories. It resides mostly in central North America. The U.S. has three land borders, two with Canada and one with Mexico, and is otherwise bounded by the Pacific Ocean, the Bering Sea, the Arctic Ocean and the Atlantic Ocean. Of the 50 states, only Alaska and Hawaii are not contiguous with any other state. The U.S. also has a collection of districts, territories, and possessions around the world. Each state has a high level of local autonomy according to the system of federalism. The U.S. traces its national origin to the declaration by 13 British colonies in 1776 that they were free and independent states. They were recognized as such by the Treaty of Paris in 1783. Since then, the nation has grown to become a global superpower and exerts a high level of economic, political, military, and cultural influence. More about… the United States, its history and diversity Refresh with new selections below (purge) edit Selected article Hoover Dam, once known as Boulder Dam, is a concrete arch-gravity dam in the Black Canyon of the Colorado River, on the border between the US states of Arizona and Nevada. It was constructed between 1931 and 1936 during the Great Depression, and was dedicated on September 30, 1935, by President Franklin Roosevelt. Its construction was the result of a massive effort involving thousands of workers, and cost over one hundred lives. Hoover Dam impounds Lake Mead, and is located near Boulder City, Nevada, a municipality originally constructed for workers on the construction project, about 25 mi (40 km) southeast of Las Vegas, Nevada. The dam's generators provide power for public and private utilities in Nevada, Arizona, and California. Hoover Dam is a major tourist attraction; nearly a million people tour the dam each year. Heavily travelled U.S. 93 ran along the dam's crest until October 2010, when the Hoover Dam Bypass opened. More selected articles Read more... edit Did you know? ... that over 400 species of birds (state bird, Brown Thrasher, pictured) have been recorded in the American state of Georgia? ... that the book The Complex: How the Military Invades Our Everyday Lives explores U.S. military expenditures on items including Southern catfish restaurants and Dunkin' Donuts? ... that the book Beyond the First Amendment argues freedom of speech on the Internet is not easily addressed by the First Amendment to the United States Constitution? More did you know selections Read more... edit Selected society biography Sylvanus Griswold Morley (June 7, 1883 – September 2, 1948) was an American archaeologist, epigrapher, and Mayanist scholar who made significant contributions toward the study of the pre-Columbian Maya civilization in the early 20th century. Morley made extensive excavations of the Maya site of Chichen Itza that he directed on behalf of the Carnegie Institution. He also published several large compilations and treatises on Maya hieroglyphic writing, and wrote popular accounts on the Maya for a general audience. To his contemporaries, "Vay" Morley was one of the leading Mesoamerican archaeologists of his day. Although more recent developments in the field have resulted in a re-evaluation of his theories and works, his publications, particularly on calendric inscriptions, are still cited. In his role as director of various projects sponsored by the Carnegie Institution, he oversaw and encouraged many others who later established notable careers in their own right. His commitment and enthusiasm for Maya studies helped inspire the necessary sponsorship for projects that would ultimately reveal much about ancient Maya civilization. Morley also conducted espionage in Mexico on behalf of the United States during World War I, but the scope of those activities only came to light well after his death. His archaeological field work in Mexico and Central America provided suitable cover for investigating German activities and anti-American activity at the behest of the United States' Office of Naval Intelligence. More selected society biographies More... edit Selected quote General Secretary Gorbachev, if you seek peace, if you seek prosperity for the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, if you seek liberalization: Come here to this gate! Mr. Gorbachev, open this gate! Mr. Gorbachev, tear down this wall! — Ronald Reagan, Speech at the Brandenburg Gate. (June 12, 1987) More selected quotes More... edit Anniversaries for April 28 1758 – James Monroe, 5th President of the United States, is born. 1788 – Maryland becomes the seventh state to ratify the Constitution of the United States. 1952 – The United States occupation of Japan ends. 1965 – United States troops land in the Dominican Republic to "forestall establishment of a Communist dictatorship" and to evacuate U.S. citizens. 1970 – President Richard M. Nixon formally authorizes American combat troops to fight communist sanctuaries in Cambodia, violating a United Nations convention put in place to prevent the spread of the Vietnam War into neighboring states. 2001 – Millionaire Dennis Tito (pictured) becomes the world's first space tourist. More anniversaries More... [nil edit] Selected cuisine A pot of chili con carne with beans and tomatoes The cuisine of the Southwestern United States is food styled after the rustic cooking of the region. It comprises a fusion of recipes for things that might have been eaten by Spanish colonial settlers, cowboys, Native Americans, and Mexicans throughout the post-Columbian era; there is, however, a great diversity in this kind of cuisine throughout the Southwestern states. Read more... edit Selected image Credit: Mila Zinkova A surfer performing a gash, or very sharp turn, off the Santa Cruz, California coastline. Northern California is a popular surfing destination; however, the year-round low temperature of the ocean in that region (averaging 57ºF/14ºC) necessitates the use of wetsuits. More selected images Read more... edit Selected location Pittsburgh is the largest city in both Appalachia and the Ohio River Valley, as well as the second largest in the U.S. state of Pennsylvania. The city is situated at the historic Forks of the Ohio where the Allegheny River, and Monongahela River join to form the Ohio. The city was named for British Prime Minister William Pitt the Elder almost twenty years before the Revolutionary War, in honor of his unique support for the frontiers people crossing into the American interior. The city is a leader in the medical, academic, technology, finance, metals and energy industries. It is the home to the world's largest concentration of bridges, America's most steps, and seven major universities including top ranked University of Pittsburgh and Carnegie Mellon University. More selected locations More... edit Selected culture biography Sandy Koufax is an American left-handed former pitcher in Major League Baseball who played his entire career for the Brooklyn/Los Angeles Dodgers, from 1955 to 1966. Koufax's career peaked with a run of six outstanding seasons, before arthritis ended his career at age 30. He was named the National League's MVP in 1963, and won the 1963, 1965, and 1966 Cy Young Awards by unanimous votes. He was the first major leaguer to pitch more than three no-hitters (including a perfect game). Among NL pitchers with at least 2,000 innings pitched who have debuted since 1913, he has the highest career winning percentage (.655) and had the lowest career ERA (2.76) until surpassed by Tom Seaver. His 2,396 career strikeouts ranked 7th in major league history upon his retirement. Retiring at the peak of his career, he became the youngest player ever elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame. Koufax is also known as one of the outstanding Jewish athletes of his era in American professional sports. His decision not to pitch Game 1 of the 1965 World Series because game day fell on Yom Kippur, the Jewish Day of Atonement, garnered national attention as an example of conflict between social pressures and personal beliefs. More selected culture biographies More... edit In the news Wikinews United States portal April 16: Elizabeth Warren endorses Joe Biden in 2020 US presidential election April 15: Bernie Sanders endorses Joe Biden in 2020 United States presidential election April 14: English mathematician John Horton Conway dies after contracting COVID-19 April 14: Iranian International Master Dorsa Derakhshani discusses her chess career with Wikinews April 10: Bernie Sanders ends 2020 US presidential bid April 7: US state of Wisconsin holds 2020 election amidst COVID-19 concerns April 5: SARS-CoV-2 surpasses one million infections worldwide March 26: Florida frog skull survey shows spikes, say scientists March 20: Arizona, Florida, Illinois hold 2020 US presidential primaries; Ohio postpones March 16: US President Trump declares COVID-19 national emergency March 15: Native American groups sue US state of Montana over ballot law March 15: Bernie Sanders wins 2020 Northern Mariana Islands US Democratic presidential caucus March 14: World Health Organization declares COVID-19 pandemic March 13: National Basketball Association suspends season due to COVID-19 concerns March 11: Joe Biden wins 2020 US Democratic presidential primaries in Michigan, Missouri, and Mississippi March 6: Bloomberg, Warren end US presidential campaigns following Super Tuesday March 2: Joe Biden wins 2020 South Carolina US Democratic presidential primary February 24: Donald Trump wins 2020 US Republican delegates from Nevada February 23: Bernie Sanders wins 2020 Nevada caucuses February 21: US President Trump grants eleven people clemency edit Selected panorama Credit: The Gugler Lithographic Co., Milwaukee, Wis. Panoramic view of Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Taken from City Hall tower c1898 More selected panoramas Read more... edit Categories Select [►] to view subcategories ▼ United States ► States of the United States ► United States-related lists ► Buildings and structures in the United States ► Cultivars originating in the United States ► American culture ► Economy of the United States ► Geography of the United States ► Government in the United States ► History of the United States ► Organizations based in the United States ► American people ► Politics of the United States ► American society ► United States stubs edit Featured content Main page: Wikipedia:WikiProject United States/Recognized content As of 28 April 2020, there are 1,242 featured and 3,362 good articles within WikiProject United States scope. This makes up 5.51% of the articles on Wikipedia, 13.37% of all featured articles and lists, and 10.7% of all good articles. Including non-article pages, such as talk pages, redirects, categories, etcetera, there are 1,058,930 pages in the project. Featured culture biographies: Actors and filmmakers – James Thomas Aubrey, Jr. • Kroger Babb • Eric Bana • Joseph Barbera • Bette Davis • Kirsten Dunst • Judy Garland • Jake Gyllenhaal • Maggie Gyllenhaal • Anthony Michael Hall • William Hanna • Phil Hartman • Ethan Hawke • Katie Holmes • Janet Jackson • Michael Jackson • Angelina Jolie • Diane Keaton • Madonna (entertainer) • Austin Nichols • Brad Pitt • Nancy Reagan • Ronald Reagan • Aaron Sorkin • KaDee Strickland • Sharon Tate • Reese Witherspoon • Anna May Wong; Arts and entertainment – James Robert Baker • William D. Boyce • Stephen Crane • H.D. • Emily Dickinson • George Washington Dixon • Zelda Fitzgerald • Margaret Fuller • William Gibson • Rufus Wilmot Griswold • Ernest Hemingway • Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr. • Jenna Jameson • James Russell Lowell • Master Juba • I. M. Pei • Edgar Allan Poe • Roman Vishniac • Nathaniel Parker Willis; Musicians – Aaliyah • Alice in Chains • Audioslave • Bix Beiderbecke • Big Star • Mariah Carey • Damageplan • Bob Dylan • Flea (musician) • Black Francis • John Frusciante • Godsmack • The Greencards • Insane Clown Posse • Janet Jackson • Michael Jackson • Bradley Joseph • Maynard James Keenan • Frank Klepacki • David Lovering • Madonna (entertainer) • John Mayer • Metallica • Nine Inch Nails • Nirvana (band) • The Notorious B.I.G. • Leo Ornstein • Ellis Paul • Pearl Jam • Pixies • Elvis Presley • Selena • Slayer • The Smashing Pumpkins • Elliott Smith • Gwen Stefani • The Supremes • Tool (band) • Uncle Tupelo • Wilco • Frank Zappa; Sports and games – Nick Adenhart • Shelton Benjamin • Moe Berg • Tim Duncan • Bobby Eaton • Orval Grove • Art Houtteman • Magic Johnson • Michael Jordan • Bart King • Sandy Koufax • Jimmy McAleer • Bob Meusel • Stan Musial • Ben Paschal • CM Punk • J. R. Richard • Jackie Robinson • Bill Russell • Sigi Schmid • Lee Smith (baseball) • Ozzie Smith • Paul Stastny • Jim Thorpe • Tyrone Wheatley Featured society biographies: Military – Daniel Boone • James Bowie • Simon Bolivar Buckner • Henry Cornelius Burnett • Frederick Russell Burnham • Wesley Clark • Brian Eaton • Gerald Ford • Winfield Scott Hancock • Benjamin Harrison • William Henry Harrison • Rutherford B. Hayes • Thomas C. Hindman • Thomas C. Kinkaid • Eli Lilly • John McCain • George B. McClellan • Fred Moosally • Sylvanus Morley • Edwin Taylor Pollock • Ronald Reagan • Uriel Sebree • Lawrence Sullivan Ross • Isaac Shelby • William Tecumseh Sherman • Myles Standish • Edward Teller • Benjamin Franklin Tilley • Stephen Trigg • Harriet Tubman; Politics and government – Samuel Adams • J. C. W. Beckham • Daniel Boone • William O'Connell Bradley • Simon Bolivar Buckner • Henry Cornelius Burnett • Charles Carroll the Settler • Murray Chotiner • Wesley Clark • Grover Cleveland • Calvin Coolidge • Richard Cordray • John J. Crittenden • Gerald Ford • Wendell Ford • William Goebel • Emma Goldman • John W. Johnston • Franklin Knight Lane • John McCain • George B. McClellan • Bob McEwen • Thomas R. Marshall • Harvey Milk • Edwin P. Morrow • Pat Nixon • Barack Obama • Rosa Parks • Paul E. Patton • Edwin Taylor Pollock • Nancy Reagan • Ronald Reagan • Theodore Roosevelt • Lawrence Sullivan Ross • Terry Sanford • Antonin Scalia • Solomon P. Sharp • Isaac Shelby • Augustus Owsley Stanley • Stephen Trigg • Jerry Voorhis • Daniel Webster • Franklin D. Roosevelt • Harry S. Truman; Science and academia – Edward Drinker Cope • Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr. • David A. Johnston • Eli Lilly • Glynn Lunney • Barbara McClintock • Sylvanus Morley • Gerard K. O'Neill • Hilary Putnam • Edward Teller • Roman Vishniac • Otto Julius Zobel Featured lists: There are over 230 Featured lists in the scope of United States including: 109th United States Congress • Commandant of the Marine Corps • Korean War Medal of Honor recipients • Most populous counties in the United States • National Parks of the United States • Tallest buildings in Washington, D.C. • U.S. state name etymologies • U.S. states by population • United States Secretary of Energy • Volcanoes in the Hawaiian – Emperor seamount chain See more by WikiProject... edit Topics History (book A, book B) Timeline • Pre-Columbian • Colonial United States • Thirteen Colonies • Declaration of Independence • American Revolution • Westward Expansion • Civil War • Reconstruction Era • World War I • Great Depression • World War II • Korean War • Cold War • Vietnam War • Civil Rights Movement • War on Terrorism • Foreign relations • Military • Demographic • Industrial • Inventions and Discoveries • Postal Government (book) Law (Constitution • Bill of Rights • Separation of powers) • Legislative branch (House • Senate) • Executive Branch (Cabinet • Federal agencies) • Judicial Branch (Supreme Court • Appeals) • Law enforcement (DoJ • FBI) • Intelligence (CIA • DIA • NSA) • Military (Army • Navy • Marines • Air Force • Coast Guard) • Flag Politics (outline) Political parties (Democrats • Republicans) • Elections (Electoral College) • Political ideology • Political scandals • Red states and blue states • Uncle Sam • Puerto Rican independence movement Geography (book) Political divisions • Territory • States • Cities • Counties • Regions (New England • Mid-Atlantic • The South • Midwest • Great Plains • Northwest • Southwest) • Mountains (Appalachian • Rocky) • Rivers (Mississippi • Colorado) • Islands • Extreme points • National Park System • Water supply and sanitation Economy (book) U.S. Dollar • Companies • Wall Street • Federal Reserve • Banking • Standard of living (Personal & Household income • Income inequality • Homeownership) • Communications • Transportation (Cars • Trucks • Highways • Airports • Railroads) • Tourism Society Demographics (book A, B) • Languages (American English • Spanish) • Religion • Social class (American Dream • Affluence • Middle class • Poverty • Educational attainment • Professional and working class conflict) • Media • Education • Holidays • Crime • Prisons • Health care Culture (book) Music (Classical • Folk • Popular • Jazz) • Film & TV (Hollywood) • Literature (American Folklore • Poetry • Transcendentalism • Harlem Renaissance • Beat generation) • Philosophy • Visual arts • (Abstract expressionism) • Cuisine • Dance • Architecture • Fashion Issues Affirmative action • American exceptionalism • Anti-Americanism • Capital punishment • Drug policy & Prohibition • Environmentalism • Human rights • Immigration • Mexico–United States barrier • Obesity • Pornography • Racial profiling • Same-sex marriage • Abortion • Adolescent sexuality Wikipedia Books United States edit Lists United States-related lists Culture Artists Composers Novelists Playwrights Poets Education Colleges and universities Federal academies School districts Economy Hospitals Geography Cities Counties Indian reservations Government Presidents Federal Agencies Political parties United States Representatives United States Senators History Military history State name etymologies Law Law enforcement agencies Legislation Prisons Supreme Court Media Newspapers Radio networks Television networks Television stations Natural history Lakes Rivers Mountains People People from United States Protected areas National parks National Register of Historic Places Religion Televangelists Transportation Airports Bridges Interstate Highways Railroads U.S. Highways edit Things to do This is a list of recognized content, updated weekly by JL-Bot (talk · contribs). If an article is missing from the list, make sure it is tagged (e.g. {{WikiProject United States}}) or categorized correctly. See WP:RECOG for configuration options. Featured article candidates 1916 Texas hurricane Apollo 11 50th Anniversary commemorative coins John W. Beschter Bombing of Obersalzberg Charles Duke The Grand Budapest Hotel Hurricane Lane (2018) Racer's hurricane Seattle Center Monorail Total pages in content type is 9 Featured list candidates List of The Masked Singer (American TV series) episodes List of counties in Washington List of North Carolina militia units in the American Revolution Total pages in content type is 3 Good article nominees 2019 World Series American Bank Note Company Printing Plant American History X An Unbelievable Story of Rape Anuel AA James A. Baker (born 1857) Big Brother 21 (American season) Black Monday (1987) Madison Bumgarner Ellen Burstyn The Circle (American season 1) Nicholas Colasanto Chris Columbus (filmmaker) Gregorio Cortez John R. Countryman Jamal Crawford George Crowninshield Jr. Dumbo (2019 film) James Dunn (actor) Everett, Washington F. Scott Fitzgerald Kahlil Gibran Emily Hale Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold Aaron Hernandez History of East Texas State University The House on Mango Street Jan Howard Iowa Lamar Jackson Kennewick, Washington Earl Landgrebe Aleksandras Lileikis The Masked Singer (American TV series) George Mathews (Georgia) George Edward Pendray Terry Peder Rasmussen Requiem for a Dream Jedediah Sanger Silver Line (MBTA) Sturgill Simpson Southern Railway's Spencer Shops Space Shuttle Tax inversion Veterans benefits for post-traumatic stress disorder in the United States Russell Wilson Total pages in content type is 46 To create Missing articles Requested articles U.S. Representatives listed here. To discuss on Articles for deletion See: Deletion sorting/United States of America for the current list. To expand American Old West Confederate States Army To destub Category:Stub-Class United States articles Category:United States stubs Assessment requests Requests for assessment New articles National • State A-F • State G-L • State M-N • State O-Z Most Popular pages Popular pages To find images Category:Wikipedia requested photographs in the United States Maintenance and cleanup Unreferenced BLP's Needing cleanup Category:United States articles missing geocoordinate data Category:United States articles needing attention Category:United States articles needing infoboxes Category:Wikipedia requested photographs in the United States Category:Wikipedia requested maps in the United States Other issues Portal:United States - Needs to be updated and expanded 2010 Census - Update articles using 2000 census data to use the 2010 data edit WikiProjects United States is one of the United States WikiProjects. National United States States Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming List of U.S. State-level WikiProjects and their sub-projects Territories Caribbean Puerto Rico Virgin Islands District of Columbia Micronesia Guam Johnston Atoll Northern Mariana Islands Wake Island Midway Atoll Polynesia American Samoa Regional Counties Superfunds Borders Canada Mexico North America Culture American animation American cinema American football American music American television Archives of American Art Civil War Comics History Library of Congress Military history National Register of Historic Places Old West Revolutionary War Smithsonian Institution Smithsonian Institution Archives Government Donald Trump Congress Courts and judges FBI Federal Government Legislative Data Gerald Ford Government Governors National Archives & Records Administration National Institutes of Health Presidential elections Presidents Public Policy State Legislatures Supreme Court cases Society African diaspora Asian Americans Franco-Americans Indigenous peoples of North America Hispanic and Latino Americans Mexican-Americans Transportation U.S. Roads U.S. Streets Featured content Did you knows Featured articles Featured lists Popular pages edit Related portals State and city related Alaska Arizona California Greater Los Angeles San Francisco Bay Area Colorado Connecticut Florida Georgia Hawaii Illinois Chicago Indiana Iowa Kansas Maryland Michigan Mississippi New Jersey New York (state) Hudson Valley New York City Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Philadelphia Puerto Rico Rhode Island Texas Utah Virginia Sports related American football Baseball College football Transportation related U.S. roads California roads Maryland roads Michigan highways Other US related Hispanic and Latino Americans National Register of Historic Places New England American Revolutionary War American Civil War World War I World War II Modern history Border territories North America Canada Mexico Associated Wikimedia The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject: Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews News Wikiquote Quotations Wikisource Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wikivoyage Travel guides Wiktionary Definitions Wikidata Database Purge server cache Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:United_States&oldid=952365631" Categories: Portals with triaged subpages from October 2019 United States portal United States portals United States Portals by country North American portals Hidden categories: Portals that need upgrading Portals that need updating Portals with minor issues in need of attention All portals with triaged subpages All portals Portals with no named maintainer Portals with short description Random portal component with 31–40 available subpages Random portal component with 16–20 available subpages Random portal component with 21–25 available image subpages Random portal component with 26–30 available subpages Random portal component with 21–25 available subpages Random portal component with 31–40 available image subpages Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Portal Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item In other projects Wikinews Wikisource Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages العربية Azərbaycanca বাংলা Bân-lâm-gú Български Čeština Dansk Deutsch Ελληνικά Español Euskara فارسی Français Frysk Galego Հայերեն Bahasa Indonesia Italiano עברית ქართული Қазақша Kurdî Latina Lietuvių Magyar Nederlands 日本語 Norsk bokmål پنجابی Polski Português Română Русский Shqip සිංහල کوردی Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Suomi Svenska ไทย Тоҷикӣ Türkçe Українська اردو Tiếng Việt 文言 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 21 April 2020, at 21:50 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view