https://www.archives.gov/founding-docs/constitution
The Constitution of the United States | National Archives
Top Skip to main content The U.S. National Archives Home Menu Blogs · Bookmark/Share · Contact Us Search Main menu Research Our Records Veterans' Service Records Educator Resources Visit Us America's Founding Documents America's Founding Documents Home > America's Founding Documents > Constitution of the United States America's Founding Documents Main Page Explore the Documents Declaration of Independence Constitution of the United States Bill of Rights Special Features High Resolution Downloads Sign the Declaration The Faulkner Murals Meet the Framers of the Constitution Other Resources Visit the National Archives Museum Browse Teaching Resources for the Revolutionary Era Explore Online Exhibits Search the National Archives Catalog Discover the Founders Online Shop the Archives Store Ask a Question on History Hub The Constitution of the United States We the People of the United States, in Order to form a more perfect Union, establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for the common defence, promote the general Welfare, and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America. Preamble to the United States Constitution Slideshow Constitution Page 1 Constitution Page 2 Constitution Page 3 Constitution Page 4 Previous Next Download The Constitution of the United States All four pages of the document are on permanent display at the National Archives. Read a Transcript | View in National Archives Catalog The Constitution acted like a colossal merger, uniting a group of states with different interests, laws, and cultures. Under America’s first national government, the Articles of Confederation, the states acted together only for specific purposes. The Constitution united its citizens as members of a whole, vesting the power of the union in the people. Without it, the American Experiment might have ended as quickly as it had begun. Read Articles About the Constitution The article "A More Perfect Union" is an in-depth look at the Constitutional Convention and the ratification process. "Questions and Answers Pertaining to the Constitution" presents dozens of fascinating facts about the Constitution. "Errors in the Constitution—Typographical and Congressional" discusses discrepancies in various printed and handwritten versions of the document. Amendments 1-10 Amendments 1-10 constitute what is known as the Bill of Rights Amendments 11-27 Discover the other changes and additions that have been made to the Constitution over the past 200+ years. Back to Main Page What Does it Say? About the Constitution What Does it Say? The meaning of the document How Did it Happen? The history of the document How Was it Made? The creation of the parchment document Who were the framers of the Constitution? Additional activities and information How can I visit the Constitution? The National Archives Museum Read a Transcript The Constitution of the United States Transcript Events Constitution-Related Events May 19 Tuesday Facebook Twitter Online - 02:00pm to 02:45pm EDT At-Home Learning: The Constitution at Work: Elementary Edition Learn, via analysis of primary source documents, about the content, impact, and perpetual relevance of the U.S. Constitution to the daily lives of American citizens. For grades 4-6, 45 minutes. May 21 Thursday Facebook Twitter Online - 02:00pm to 02:45pm EDT At-Home Learning:The Constitution at Work: Middle and High School Edition Students will analyze primary sources to examine the powers of the Federal Government and discover how the Constitution created a stronger central government. For grades 7-12, 45 minutes. May 27 Wednesday Facebook Twitter Yorba Linda, CA - 06:00pm to 10:00pm PDT EXHIBIT CLOSES: "Becoming America: How We Gained and Secured Freedom and Self-Government" The Nixon Education Team is presenting an informative public education lecture series featuring noted Orange County history and political science professors. Snippet History Hub Our crowdsourcing platform to find help, ask questions, and get started with historical research. Snippet Shop the National Archives Store Print This Page This page was last reviewed on March 16, 2020. Contact us with questions or comments. Founding Documents Explore the Documents Declaration of Independence Constitution of the United States Bill of Rights Special Features High Resolution Downloads Sign the Declaration The Faulkner Murals Meet the Framers of the Constitution Other Resources Plan Your Visit to the National Archives Museum Browse Revolutionary Era Classroom Activities Explore Online Exhibits Search the National Archives Catalog Shop the Archives Store I Want To… Get My Military Record Plan a Research Visit Visit the Museum View Online Exhibits Apply for a Grant Participate Attend an Event Donate to the Archives Work at the Archives Volunteer at the Archives Resources America's Founding Docs Contact Us En Español FAQs Forms Shop Online Visit the National Archives Store Buy Reproductions and Microfilm Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Tumblr YouTube Blogs Flickr Contact Us · Accessibility · Privacy Policy · Freedom of Information Act · No FEAR Act · USA.gov The U.S. National Archives and Records Administration 1-86-NARA-NARA or 1-866-272-6272 Top