https://www.whitehouse.gov/get-involved/internships/selection-process/
Selection Process | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search White House Internship Program Selection Process Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard In this section HomeGet Involved Write or Call White House Internship Program Overview Presidential Departments Selection Process How to Apply White House Fellows Overview About the Fellowship Selection Process & Calendar Frequently Asked Questions How to Apply The White House Internship Program selection process is highly competitive. Applicants are encouraged to submit a thorough application that illustrates their qualifications, character, and commitment to public service. Selection as a White House intern is based on the following criteria: A commitment to public service Demonstrated leadership in the community A commitment to the mission of the Trump Administration Applicants must be U.S. citizens, must be 18 years of age, and must meet at least one of the following criteria to apply: Are currently enrolled in an undergraduate or graduate degree program at a college, community college, or university (two-to-four year institution) and have completed two semesters prior to the internship start date. Have graduated from an undergraduate or graduate degree program at a college, community college, or university (two-to-four year institution) no more than two years before the internship program start date. Are a veteran of the United States Armed Forces who possesses a high school diploma or its equivalent and has served on active duty—for any length of time—in the two years preceding the internship program start date. Frequently Asked Questions Is a White House internship a paid position? White House internships are unpaid positions. Applicants are encouraged to contact educational institutions and other non-profit organizations to apply for assistance as needed. Any outside income, funding, or housing assistance received as a White House intern must receive pre-approval. What are the hours of the White House Internship? Applicants should expect to work at least Monday-Friday, 9:00 a.m. – 6:00 p.m. Some exceptions will be made for applicants with class or program requirements, but interns must work 4.5 days a week in order to be considered full-time interns. For example, an intern may leave at 1:00 p.m. or later one day per week, if appropriate. If you require a schedule accommodation of this kind, email intern_application@who.eop.gov. Is specific White House intern housing available? No. Applicants must arrange for their own housing. Is political preference a deciding factor in the application review process? No. It is essential, however, that applicants are dedicated to the ideals and mission of the White House. Can I mail a hard copy of my application? No. We cannot accept hard copies of applications. Only applications submitted via our application portal will be reviewed. Who should write my recommendation letters? Recommendation letters can be written by anyone who can speak to your qualifications, character, and commitment to public service. Letters should be addressed to the White House Internship Program Reviewing Committee when possible, and must be submitted through the application portal as a PDF to be considered as part of the application package. Will I be penalized if my recommendation is sent in late? Yes. All application materials, including letters of recommendation, must be submitted on or before the corresponding application deadline. Applications are reviewed on a rolling basis, and we encourage you to submit your application package as soon as it is completed. The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search