https://www.whitehouse.gov/get-involved/fellows/selection-process/
Selection Process & Calendar | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search White House Fellowship Selection Process & Calendar Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard In this section HomeGet Involved Write or Call White House Internship Program Overview Presidential Departments Selection Process How to Apply White House Fellows Overview About the Fellowship Selection Process & Calendar Frequently Asked Questions How to Apply Selection as a White House Fellow is based on a combination of the following criteria: A record of remarkable professional achievement early in one’s career. Evidence of leadership skills and the potential for further growth. A demonstrated commitment to public service. The skills to succeed at the highest levels of the Federal government, and the ability to work effectively as part of a team. All these qualities combined with the strength of one’s character, a positive attitude, and the ability to work well with others are taken into consideration when selecting a class of White House Fellows. The selection process is very competitive. The White House Fellows Program office processes the applications and former Fellows screen the applications to identify the most promising candidates. Approximately 100 of the most qualified applicants are selected to be Regional Finalists and are interviewed by eight to ten regional panels, which are composed of prominent local citizens. Regional Finalists are expected to participate in an evening and one day of interviews that determine the selection of the National Finalists. Travel arrangements are the responsibility of each Regional Finalist. The interviews are scheduled during the Spring in different cities throughout the country with 10 – 13 Finalists participating in each panel. Interviews are conducted by panels of distinguished citizens from the city where each regional panel is held. Based on the results of their interviews, the regional panels select approximately thirty candidates to proceed as National Finalists. All National Finalists are required to undergo comprehensive background investigations to ensure that they qualify for the security clearance necessary for their fellowship work assignments. National Finalists participate in “Selection Weekend,” which is three evenings and two days of interviews with members of the President’s Commission on White House Fellowships. The Commission provides lodging and travel. During Selection Weekend, the Commissioners interview finalists at a location near Washington, D.C. After spending Selection Weekend interviewing, interacting with, and observing the national finalists, the Commissioners recommend those individuals (between 11 and 19) it finds most qualified for the fellowship to the President for appointment as White House Fellows. Prerequisites Applicants must be U.S. citizens. Employees of the Federal government are not eligible unless they are career military personnel. Applicants must have completed their undergraduate education by the time they begin the application process. There are no formal age restrictions. However, the Fellowship program was created to give selected Americans the experience of government service early in their careers. The Commission awards Fellowships on a strict non-partisan basis, and encourages balance and diversity in all aspects of the program. Calendar and Procedures Fall Live Application Period The application for the 2020-2021 class of White House Fellows will go live November 1, 2019. It is the responsibility of the applicant to ensure that his/her application has been submitted in its entirety. Spring Regional Finalist Selection Applicants are notified in March if they have been selected as regional finalists. If selected, they will be notified of the time and location for regional interviews. Panel interviews are conducted during the Spring. Regional finalists must keep a flexible schedule until panel assignments are announced. It is not likely that the assignment can be changed. Regional finalists must submit extensive security background investigation forms upon notification of their selection. May National Finalists Notification National finalists selected from the regional interviews are notified at the beginning of May. The national finalist list is posted on the website. All national finalists undergo background investigations before proceeding with the selection process. June Selection Weekend National finalists are interviewed over a two-and-a-half day period by the members of the President’s Commission on White House Fellowships. The Commission then recommends a class of Fellows to the President. Lodging and airfare in the United States are paid by the Commission. Presidential Selection The White House Press Office announces the President’s official selection of the incoming class of White House Fellows. July Placement Week Fellows interview with principals in government agencies during Placement Week which generally occurs in the middle of July. The principals and Fellows indicate their desired preferences to the Program Director. The Director determines the placement of each Fellow in a work assignment. Lodging and airfare in the United States are paid by the Commission. August to August Inclusive dates of the Fellowship year. The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search