https://www.whitehouse.gov/get-involved/fellows/apply/
How to Apply
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search White House Fellowship How to Apply Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard In this section HomeGet Involved Write or Call White House Internship Program Overview Presidential Departments Selection Process How to Apply White House Fellows Overview About the Fellowship Selection Process & Calendar Frequently Asked Questions How to Apply Thank you for your interest in the White House Fellows program. The deadline for submission is January 8, 2020 at 5:00 p.m. EST. APPLY HERE Eligibility Requirements Applicants must be U.S. citizens. Employees of the Federal government are not eligible unless they are career military personnel. Applicants must have completed their undergraduate education by the time they begin the application process. There are no formal age restrictions. However, the Fellowship program was created to give selected Americans the experience of government service early in their careers. If you have additional questions about the program, please contact our program office at whitehousefellows@who.eop.gov or (202) 395-4522. If you encounter technical difficulties with your application, please contact WHFApplication@opm.gov. Selection Criteria Selection as a White House Fellow is based on a combination of the following criteria: A record of remarkable professional achievement early in one’s career. Evidence of leadership skills and the potential for further growth. A demonstrated commitment to public service. The skills to succeed at the highest levels of the Federal government, and the ability to work effectively as part of a team. All these qualities combined with the strength of one’s character, a positive attitude, and the ability to work well with others are taken into consideration when selecting a class of White House Fellows. Recommendation Letters Applicants will be asked to submit the names and email addresses of three recommenders (and one alternate recommender) within the application portal. We encourage you to complete this section of the application as early as possible to ensure that recommenders have ample time to submit letters of recommendation. We also strongly encourage you to provide diverse letters of recommendation (i.e. academia, professional, community service). It is best to have recommendations from individuals who know you well and can fully answer the questions that are asked in the application. For example, a recommendation letter from a prominent person is not helpful if that individual cannot speak about your background and character. At least one recommendation should be from an individual that can speak to your professional competence and accomplishments in your field. At least one recommendation should come from someone with knowledge of your community and civic activities. In addition, one recommendation should be from your current supervisor, if applicable. A recommendation from a prior supervisor is acceptable, but a current supervisor is preferred. Please take caution when submitting your recommenders’ information to avoid mistakes, as this section of the application will be locked once you submit the information and the only way to make changes is through Technical Services at WHFApplication@opm.gov. Your recommender will receive automated instructions on how to submit a letter of recommendation on your behalf within 24 hours. If they do not receive this email, please contact Technical Services at WHFApplication@opm.gov; please be sure to provide the name and email of the recommender who did not receive the instructions. Please contact the program office at whitehousefellows@who.eop.gov or (202) 395-4522 if you have additional questions. The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search