https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Presidential_election
Presidential election - Wikipedia
Presidential election From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Presidential election" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (December 2009) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) A presidential election is the election of any head of state whose official title is President. Contents 1 Elections by country 1.1 Albania 1.2 Chile 1.3 China 1.4 Czech Republic 1.5 France 1.6 Indonesia 1.7 Iran 1.8 Ireland 1.9 Israel 1.10 Kyrgyzstan 1.11 Mexico 1.12 Palestine 1.13 Philippines 1.14 Poland 1.15 Russia 1.16 South Africa 1.17 Switzerland 1.18 Republic of China 1.19 Tanzania 1.20 Ukraine 1.21 United States 1.22 Venezuela 2 List of presidential elections 3 See also 4 References Elections by country[edit] Albania[edit] The President of Albania is elected by the Assembly of Albania who are elected by the Albanian public. Chile[edit] Main article: Elections in Chile The President of Chile is elected by the Chilean people for a four-year term. Sitting presidents are not allowed to run for reelection, but former presidents may do so. China[edit] Main article: Elections in the People's Republic of China The President and Vice President of China, are elected by the National People's Congress on the nomination of the Presidium of the National People's Congress. In practice, the presidential candidate is chosen through an informal process within the Communist Party of China. Czech Republic[edit] Main article: Elections in the Czech Republic President of the Czech Republic is elected for a five-year term. Prior 2013, the election was indirect by the Parliament. The first direct election was held in 2013. France[edit] Main article: Presidential elections in France The President of France is elected for a five-year (since 2002) term by the public. Indonesia[edit] Main article: Elections in Indonesia The President and Vice President of Indonesia are elected for a maximum of two five-year terms. Since 2004, presidential elections in Indonesia have been determined by popular vote. Iran[edit] The President of Iran is elected to a four-year term by the public. The first Presidential election in Iran was held in 1980, following the Iranian Revolution of 1979 which resulted in the overthrow of the monarchy, although the President's power is second to the Supreme Leader who has absolute power in the government. Ireland[edit] Main article: Irish presidential election The President of Ireland is elected by the Irish people for a seven-year term. Israel[edit] The President of Israel is elected by the Knesset to a single seven-year term, though the role of the President is largely ceremonial as the real power of the country is in the hands of the Prime Minister. Kyrgyzstan[edit] The President of Kyrgyzstan undergoes a single term of six years.[1] Mexico[edit] The President of Mexico is elected for a six-year term by the public. The first presidential election in Mexico was in 1934, although these weren't considered to have met international standards until 1994.[citation needed] Palestine[edit] The President of the Palestinian National Authority is the highest-ranking political position in the State of Palestine and is elected to a four-year term by the public. Philippines[edit] The President of the Philippines is the highest ranking political position in the Philippines and is elected to a Six-year term by the General Populace. The most recent Presidential Election was the 2016 Philippine Presidential Election which resulted in Rodrigo Duterte being elected the 16th President of the Philippines. Poland[edit] The first President of Second Polish Republic was Gabriel Narutowicz. In the Second Polish Republic, the President was elected by the Parliament, while in the Third Polish Republic the President is elected for a five-year term by the public. The most recent presidential election was the 2015 Polish presidential election. The next election will take place in 2020. Russia[edit] The President of Russia is elected for a six-year term by the public. The first Presidential election in Russia was held in 1991 following the dissolution of the Soviet Union. South Africa[edit] The President of South Africa is elected by the National Assembly who are elected by the South African public. The leader of the largest elected party in the National Assembly becomes President for a five-year term. The first non-racial elections were held in 1994 to mark the end of apartheid. Switzerland[edit] The President of the Swiss Confederation is elected every year for a one-year term by the Federal Assembly among the seven Federal Councillors who collectively form together the Head of State. Primus inter pares, the President has no powers over and above the other six Councillors and continues to head his or her department. Traditionally the duty rotates among the members in order of seniority and the previous year's Vice President becomes President. Republic of China[edit] Main article: Presidential elections in Taiwan Candidates for President of the Republic of China must be ROC citizens who have reached 40 years of age, has set their domicile in the ROC for not less than 15 years and lived in the free regions of the ROC for not less than 6 consecutive months. Naturalised citizens, residents of Hong Kong, Macau or the People's Republic of China, soldiers and election officials are not eligible.[2] Tanzania[edit] The President of Tanzania is elected by general vote every five years. As of 2015, 24,001,134 people in Tanzania were registered to vote. Voters are registered upon completion of a Biometric Voters Register kit. The current president is John Magufuli. Ukraine[edit] The President of Ukraine is elected for a five-year term by the public. The first Presidential election in Ukraine was held in 1991 following the dissolution of the Soviet Union. United States[edit] Main article: United States presidential election The United States has elections on the state and local levels. The Electoral College is the constitutional body that elects the president, and voters actually vote for the members of the Electoral College at the state level. In the U.S., the presidential elections at the state-level decide which people shall become members of the Electoral College for each state, and those members of the Electoral College in turn cast their votes for the presidential candidates. The first recorded Electoral College presidential election in the United States was in 1788−1789, in which George Washington won.[3] Venezuela[edit] The President of Venezuela is elected by the public to a six-year term. List of presidential elections[edit] This list is incomplete; you can help by expanding it. Elections in Albania Elections in Argentina Elections in Belarus Elections in Brazil Elections in Estonia Elections in Finland Elections in France Elections in Germany Elections in Hungary Elections in India Elections in Indonesia Elections in Iran Elections in the Republic of Ireland Elections in Israel Elections in Italy Elections in Mexico Elections in the Palestinian National Authority Elections in Poland Elections in Portugal Elections in Russia Elections in South Africa Elections in South Korea Elections in Spain Elections in Taiwan Elections in Ukraine Elections in the United States Elections in Venezuela See also[edit] President (government title) Who is elected References[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Presidential elections. ^ "Factbox: Key political risks to watch in Kyrgyzstan". Factbox. Retrieved October 16, 2017. ^ "Presidential and Vice Presidential Election and Recall Act". ^ "When Was the First Presidential Election?". Your Dictionary. Archived from the original on 8 June 2012. Retrieved 17 September 2012. Authority control BNF: cb11948207k (data) LCCN: sh85106460 NDL: 00561233 NKC: ph115883 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Presidential_election&oldid=917394818" Categories: Presidential elections Elections by type Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from December 2009 All articles needing additional references All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from October 2011 Incomplete lists from February 2011 Commons category link is on Wikidata Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers Wikipedia articles with NDL identifiers Wikipedia articles with NKC identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages العربية Asturianu Français 한국어 Bahasa Indonesia ქართული Nederlands 日本語 Polski Português Русский Suomi 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 23 September 2019, at 17:00 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view