http://www.macromedia.com/support/documentation/en/flashplayer/help/settings_manager07.html
Adobe - Flash Player : Settings Manager - Website Storage Settings panel
Accessibility For the complete experience, please enable JavaScript in your browser. Thank you! Products How to Buy Learn & Support About Adobe Creative Cloud Photoshop Illustrator InDesign Premiere Pro After Effects Lightroom See all See plans for: businesses photographers students Document Cloud Acrobat DC Sign Stock Elements Marketing Cloud Analytics Audience Manager Campaign Experience Manager Media Optimizer Target See all Adobe for enterprise Acrobat Reader DC Adobe Flash Player Adobe AIR Adobe Shockwave Player All products Creative Cloud Individuals Photographers Students and Teachers Business Schools and Universities Creative Cloud Marketing Cloud Document Cloud Stock Elements All products Get Support Find answers quickly. Contact us if you need to. Start now > Learn the apps Get started or learn new ways to work. Learn now > Ask the community Post questions and get answers from experts. Start now > Adobe is changing the world through digital experiences. Our creative, marketing and document solutions empower everyone — from emerging artists to global brands — to bring digital creations to life and deliver them to the right person at the right moment for the best results. About Us Newsroom Careers At Adobe Privacy Security Corporate Responsibility Customer Showcase Investor Relations Events Contact Us Home Support Documentation Flash Player Documentation Flash Player Help Settings Manager Global Privacy Settings panel Global Storage Settings panel Global Security Settings panel Website Privacy Settings panel Website Storage Settings panel Protected Content Playback Settings panel Peer-Assisted Networking Panel Table of Contents Flash Player Help Display settings Privacy settings Local storage settings Microphone settings Camera settings Local storage pop-up question Privacy pop-up question Security pop-up question Peer-assisted networking pop-up question Website Storage Settings panel This content requires Flash Download the free Flash Player now! Note: The Settings Manager that you see above is not an image; it is the actual Settings Manager. Click the tabs to see different panels, and click the options in the panels to change your Adobe Flash Player settings. The list of websites above is stored on your computer only, so that you can view or change your local storage settings. Adobe has no access to this list, or to any of the information that the websites may have stored on your computer. Use this panel to specify storage settings for any or all of the websites that you have visited. The list of Visited Websites displays the following information for each website: The name of the website The amount of disk space the website has used to store information on your computer The maximum amount of disk space the website can use before requesting additional space In this panel, you can change storage settings for a website or delete the website so that, if you visit it again, it will use your global settings instead of any individual settings you may have set. You can also delete all sites, which erases any information that may have already been stored on your computer. Note: To specify the amount of disk space that websites you haven't yet visited can use to store information on your computer, or to prevent websites you haven't yet visited from storing information on your computer, use the Global Storage Settings panel. Change storage settings To specify storage settings for a website, select the website in the Visited Websites list, and then change its storage settings as desired. The following list explains the storage options: If you don't want to let applications from this website save any information on your computer, select Always Deny. If you want to let applications from this website save as much information on your computer as they need ,select Always Allow. Note: : If an application from the selected website has already saved some information on your computer and you select Always Deny,Flash Player informs you that any information that has already been saved will be deleted. Delete website If you select a website and then click Delete Website, the website is removed from your list of visited websites. Any information the website may have stored on your computer is erased. (You will have the opportunity to confirm or cancel your selection.) If you visit a website again after you have deleted it, the amount of disk space the website can use to store information on your computer is set to the amount specified in the Global Storage Settings panel. Also, if the website tries to access your camera or microphone and you haven't used the Always Deny option in the Global Privacy Settings panel, you will be asked whether to allow or deny such access. Delete all sites If you click Delete All Sites, all websites are removed from your list of visited websites. Any information a website may have stored on your computer is erased. (You will have the opportunity to confirm or cancel your selection.) If you visit a website again after you have deleted it, the amount of disk space the website can use to store information on your computer is set to the amount specified in the Global Storage Settings panel. Also, if the website tries to access your camera or microphone and you haven't used the Always Deny option in the Global Privacy Settings panel, you will be asked whether to allow or deny such access. Choose your region United States (Change) Products Downloads Learn & Support Company Choose your region Close Americas Europe, Middle East and Africa Asia Pacific Brasil Canada - English Canada - Français Latinoamérica México United States Africa - English Österreich - Deutsch Belgium - English Belgique - Français België - Nederlands България Hrvatska Cyprus - English Česká republika Danmark Eesti Suomi France Deutschland Greece - English Magyarország Ireland Israel - English ישראל - עברית Italia Latvija Lietuva Luxembourg - Deutsch Luxembourg - English Luxembourg - Français Malta - English الشرق الأوسط وشمال أفريقيا - اللغة العربية Middle East and North Africa - English Moyen-Orient et Afrique du Nord - Français Nederland Norge Polska Portugal România Россия Srbija Slovensko Slovenija España Sverige Schweiz - Deutsch Suisse - Français Svizzera - Italiano Türkiye Україна United Kingdom Australia 中国 中國香港特別行政區 Hong Kong S.A.R. of China India - English 日本 한국 New Zealand Southeast Asia (Includes Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, and Vietnam) - English 台灣 Commonwealth of Independent States Includes Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Moldova, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, Uzbekistan Copyright © 2020 Adobe Systems Incorporated. All rights reserved. Terms of Use | Privacy | Cookies AdChoices