https://www.facebook.com/WhiteHouse/posts/?ref=page_internal
The White House - Posts | Facebook
Jump to Sections of this page Accessibility Help Press alt + / to open this menu Facebook Email or Phone Password Forgot account? Home About Posts Photos Community Videos See more of The White House on Facebook Log In orCreate New Account See more of The White House on Facebook Log In Forgot account? orCreate New Account Not Now Places Washington D.C. Community OrganizationGovernment Organization The White House Posts English (US) · Español · Português (Brasil) · Français (France) · Deutsch Privacy · Terms · Advertising · Ad Choices · Cookies · More Facebook © 2020 The White House 10 hrs · We built the greatest economy in the world—and together, we will build it again! It looks like you may be having problems playing this video. If so, please try restarting your browser. Close President Trump Welcomes Small Business Leaders Posted by The White House 178,988 Views The White House 11 hrs · Ed & Jim’s Body Shop of Parkville, MD, has been in business for over 50 years, serving many lifelong customers. The Coronavirus forced Brandon Hutson to furlough most of his employees—but thanks to PPP, he is now in the process of rehiring everyone. It looks like you may be having problems playing this video. If so, please try restarting your browser. Close Brandon Hutson, Owner of Ed & Jim's Body Shop Posted by The White House 40,778 Views The White House 11 hrs · The Coronavirus caused revenue to drop by 90 percent at her general contracting business, says Tisa Clark, President and CEO of J.D. Clark Professional Services. Now, with a loan from PPP, Tisa will stay in business and keep her staff on payroll! It looks like you may be having problems playing this video. If so, please try restarting your browser. Close Tisa Clark, President and CEO of J.D. Clark Professional Services Posted by The White House 63,660 Views The White House 12 hrs · President Trump signed the $310 billion Paycheck Protection Program refill into law on Friday. This afternoon, he welcomed small business owners to the White House to share their stories from the first successful round of loans. 1600 Daily: http://45.wh.gov/iKmizE The White House 14 hrs · We continue to pray for the victims of the Coronavirus and the families that are grieving. "We suffer with one heart, but we will prevail." It looks like you may be having problems playing this video. If so, please try restarting your browser. Close President Trump: We suffer with one heart Posted by The White House 80,705 Views The White House 15 hrs · Our experts believe that the worst days of the pandemic are behind us—and Americans are ready for our economy to re-open. It looks like you may be having problems playing this video. If so, please try restarting your browser. Close President Trump: Worst days are behind us Posted by The White House 187,726 Views The White House 15 hrs · "As a recipient of the PPP loan, we will continue to take up the charge and help everyone, especially people with disabilities, pursue the American Dream." — Amy Wright, CEO and Founder, Bitty & Beau’s Coffee It looks like you may be having problems playing this video. If so, please try restarting your browser. Close Amy Wright, Founder of Bitty & Beau's Coffee Posted by The White House 80,548 Views The White House 15 hrs · The first round of PPP funding helped more than 1.6 million small businesses—and saved at least 30 million American jobs. It looks like you may be having problems playing this video. If so, please try restarting your browser. Close President Trump: Saving 30 million American jobs Posted by The White House 41,350 Views The White House 15 hrs · Today, we are celebrating American workers and small businesses! 🇺🇸 It looks like you may be having problems playing this video. If so, please try restarting your browser. Close President Trump: Celebrating small businesses Posted by The White House 61,612 Views The White House 16 hrs · "At Bitty & Beau's, we like to use the phrase called 'not broken.' ... I know the great country of the United States isn't broken either." — Michael Heup, employee It looks like you may be having problems playing this video. If so, please try restarting your browser. Close Michael Heup, Employee, Bitty & Beau’s Coffee Posted by The White House 318,772 Views The White House was live. 17 hrs · LIVE at 3:00 p.m. ET: President Trump delivers remarks on supporting our Nation's small businesses! It looks like you may be having problems playing this video. If so, please try restarting your browser. Close President Trump Delivers Remarks on Supporting Our Nation's Small Businesses Posted by The White House 981,465 Views 981K Views The White House went live. 17 hrs · LIVE at 3:00 p.m. ET: President Trump delivers remarks on supporting our Nation's small businesses! This live video has ended. Yesterday at 12:00 PM President Trump Delivers Remarks on Supporting Our Nation's Small Businesses This video is now available to watch Watch Now The White House 18 hrs · America's smallest businesses received the majority of loans in the first wave of the Paycheck Protection Program! 🇺🇸 The White House 19 hrs · A "boots-on-the-ground" Federal response helped states combat Coronavirus and drive down the spread, Secretary Alex Azar writes. That same approach will help protect citizens while we re-open America for business. News of the day: http://45.wh.gov/bGHwAx The White House 20 hrs · Thanks to incredible cooperation between government and the private sector, we've taken the lead in testing worldwide. It looks like you may be having problems playing this video. If so, please try restarting your browser. Close VP: 5.4 million tests completed Posted by The White House 65,714 Views The White House 21 hrs · To provide further guidance and support to the states, we released our blueprint for state testing plans and rapid response programs. It looks like you may be having problems playing this video. If so, please try restarting your browser. Close President Trump: Blueprint for America Posted by The White House 46,130 Views The White House 21 hrs · The United States has conducted over 5.4 million tests—more than any other country in the world. It looks like you may be having problems playing this video. If so, please try restarting your browser. Close President Trump: USA holds record for testing Posted by The White House 86,775 Views The White House 22 hrs · In March, business leaders joined President Trump in the Rose Garden to help launch a new, critical partnership with the private sector: accelerating our ability to test for the Coronavirus. Since then, we've made dramatic progress. It looks like you may be having problems playing this video. If so, please try restarting your browser. Close President Trump: Testing is going well Posted by The White House 67,448 Views The White House 23 hrs · Federal, state, and local government have formed a historic partnership in response to the Coronavirus—and these joint efforts will unlock the path forward. A look at the 8-step expansion of America’s testing capacity over the past several months: http://45.wh.gov/VcHKwx whitehouse.gov www.whitehouse.gov See More