https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Election_Day_(United_States)
Election Day (United States) - Wikipedia
Election Day (United States) From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search This article is about the day for general elections. For primary elections, see Super Tuesday. For general information on U.S. elections, see Elections in the United States. San Francisco City Hall illuminated in special red, white, and blue LED lighting at night on November 6, 2018 to commemorate Election Day all around the United States National Election Day Type Day for the election of public officials in the United States Celebrations Exercising civic duty, voting for elected officials, visiting polling precincts Date The Tuesday after the first Monday of November 2019 date November 5 (Details) 2020 date November 3 (Details) 2021 date November 2 (Details) 2022 date November 8 (Details) Frequency annual Related to Super Tuesday In the United States, Election Day is the annual day set by law for the general elections of federal public officials. It is statutorily set as "the Tuesday next after the first Monday in the month of November" or "the first Tuesday after November 1".[1] The earliest possible date is November 2, and the latest possible date is November 8. For federal offices (President, Vice President, and United States Congress), Election Day occurs only in even-numbered years. Presidential elections are held every four years, in years divisible by four, in which electors for President and Vice President are chosen according to the method determined by each state. Elections to the US House of Representatives and the US Senate are held every two years; all Representatives are elected to serve two-year terms and are up for election every two years, while Senators serve six-year terms, staggered so that one third of Senators are elected in any given general election. General elections in which presidential candidates are not on the ballot are referred to as midterm elections. Terms for those elected begin in January the following year; the President and Vice President are inaugurated (sworn in) on Inauguration Day, which is usually on January 20. Many state and local government offices are also elected on Election Day as a matter of convenience and cost saving, although a handful of states hold elections for state offices (such as governor) during odd-numbered off years, or during other even-numbered midterm years, and may hold special elections for offices that have become vacant. Congress has mandated a uniform date for presidential (3 U.S.C. § 1) and congressional (2 U.S.C. § 1 and 2 U.S.C. § 7) elections, though early voting is nonetheless authorized in many states. Election Day is a public holiday in some states, including Delaware, Hawaii, Kentucky, Louisiana, Montana, New Jersey, New York, Virginia, West Virginia, and the territory of Puerto Rico. Some other states require that workers be permitted to take time off with pay. California Elections Code section 14000 provides that employees otherwise unable to vote must be allowed two hours off with pay, at the beginning or end of a shift. A federal holiday, Democracy Day, to coincide with Election Day has been proposed. Other movements in the IT and automotive industries encourage employers to voluntarily give their employees paid time off on Election Day. Contents 1 History 2 Criticism 3 Holiday and paid leave 4 Early and postal voting 5 See also 6 References 7 External links History[edit] By 1792, federal law permitted each state to choose Presidential electors any time within a 34-day period[2] before the first Wednesday in December.[3] A November election was convenient because the harvest would have been completed but the most severe winter weather, impeding transportation, would not yet have arrived, while the new election results also would roughly conform to a new year. Originally, states varied considerably in the method of choosing electors. Gradually, states converged on selection by some form of popular vote. Development of the Morse electric telegraph, funded by Congress in 1843 and successfully tested in 1844, was a technological change that clearly augured an imminent future of instant communication nationwide.[4] To prevent information from one state from influencing Presidential electoral outcomes in another, Congress responded in 1845 by mandating a uniform national date for choosing Presidential electors.[1] Congress chose the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November to harmonize current electoral practice with the existing 34-day window in federal law, as the span between Election Day and the first Wednesday in December is always 29 days.[5] The effect is to constrain Election Day to the week between November 2 and November 8 inclusive. Beginning with Presidential elections, gradually all states brought nearly all elections into conformity with this date. Criticism[edit] Most voters have to work on Tuesdays. This has led activists to promote alternatives to improve voter turnout. Alternatives include making Election Day a federal holiday or merging it with Veterans Day,[6][7] allowing voting over multiple days, mandating paid time off to vote, encouraging voters to vote early or vote by mail, and encouraging states to promote flexible voting. Holiday and paid leave[edit] U.S. states and territories that have declared Election Day a holiday See also: Democracy Day (United States) Delaware, Hawaii, Kentucky, Montana, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Virginia, West Virginia, and the territory of Puerto Rico have declared Election Day a civic holiday. Some other states require that workers be permitted to take time off from employment without loss of pay. California Elections Code Section 14000 and New York State Election Law[8] provide that employees without sufficient time to vote must be allowed two hours off with pay, at the beginning or end of a shift. Democracy Day, a planned federal holiday to coincide with Election Day, was unsuccessfully proposed in the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate in 2005. It was later reintroduced in the Senate in 2014 and has not been enacted. Some employers allow their employees to come in late or leave early on Election Day to allow them an opportunity to get to their precinct and vote. The United Auto Workers union has negotiated making Election Day a holiday for workers of U.S. domestic auto manufacturers.[citation needed] In July 2016, venture capitalist Hunter Walk began encouraging tech companies to give their employees time off to vote on Election Day.[9] Walk's campaign evolved into a website, TakeOffElectionDay.com, which now highlights the 140+ tech companies (including Spotify, Wikimedia Foundation, Autodesk, and Square, Inc.)[10] that are giving their employees time to vote on Election Day. In January 2019, Sandusky, Ohio became the first city in the country to make Election Day a paid holiday for city employees by eliminating Columbus Day.[11] On April 12, 2020, Virginia governor Ralph Northam signed legislation that established Election Day as a holiday.[12] Early and postal voting[edit] Most states allow for early voting, allowing voters to cast ballots before the Election Day. Early voting periods vary from 4 to 50 days prior to Election Day. Unconditional early voting in person is allowed in 32 states and in D.C.[13] Also, most states have some kind of absentee ballot system. Unconditional absentee voting by mail is allowed in 27 states and D.C., and with an excuse in another 21 states.[13] Unconditional permanent absentee voting is allowed in 7 states and in D.C.[13] In Colorado, Oregon, Washington, Utah, and Hawaii all major elections are by postal voting, with ballot papers sent to voters several weeks before Election Day.[14] In Colorado and Oregon, all postal votes must be received by a set time on Election Day, as is common with absentee ballots in most states (except overseas military ballots, which receive more time by federal law). Washington requires postal votes be postmarked by Election Day. For the 2008 presidential election, 32% of votes were early votes.[15] See also[edit] Democracy Day (United States) Election Primary election Public holidays of the United States Special election U.S. state holiday References[edit] ^ a b Statutes at Large, 28th Congress, 2nd Session, p. 721. ^ Annals of Congress, House of Representatives, 2nd Congress, 1st Session, p. 278. ^ Statutes at Large, 2nd Congress, 1st Session, p. 239. ^ William C. Kimberling, The Electoral College, Federal Election Commission, 1992, pp. 6-7 ^ Congressional Globe, House of Representatives, 28th Congress, 2nd Session, pp. 14-15. ^ Sutter, John D. (12 November 2012). "Election Day should be a federal holiday". CNN. Retrieved 20 October 2016. ^ "Policy Proposals". Retrieved 20 October 2016. ^ "New York State Election Law, § 3-110" (PDF). Retrieved 2016-10-07. ^ "Why You Should Give Your Employees Election Day Off". 2016-08-04. Retrieved 2016-08-05. ^ "News and Press Releases | Square". squareup.com. Retrieved 2016-08-05. ^ "Sandusky's gov't eliminates Columbus Day as holiday", Sandusky Register, Jan 30, 2019, retrieved Sep 26, 2019 ^ LeBlanc, Paul (April 12, 2020). "Virginia governor makes Election Day a holiday and expands early voting". CNN. Retrieved April 12, 2020. ^ a b c "Absentee and Early Voting". National Conference of State Legislatures. Retrieved 2012-10-30. ^ Absentee and Early Voting. National Conference of State Legislatures. ^ Michael McDonald (2010-05-01). "(Nearly) Final 2008 Early Voting Statistics". Department of Public and International Affairs, George Mason University. Archived from the original on 2012-07-30. Retrieved 2012-10-30. External links[edit] "Voting On Tuesday: How is This Still a Thing?", Last Week Tonight with John Oliver, HBO, November 5, 2016 – via YouTube v t e Federal holidays in the United States Current New Year's Day Martin Luther King Jr. Day Presidents Day Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day Columbus Day Veterans Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Proposed Flag Day (1950) Election Day (1993) Malcolm X Day (1993–1994) Democracy Day (2005, 2014) Cesar Chavez Day (2008) Susan B. Anthony Day (2011) Native American Day (2013) v t e Holidays, observances, and celebrations in the United States January New Year's Day (federal) Martin Luther King Jr. Day (federal) Birthday of Eugenio María de Hostos (PR) Confederate Heroes Day (TX) Eve of Three Kings' Day (PR, religious) Feast of Epiphany / Feast of Theophany (NJ, religious) Fred Korematsu Day (CA, FL, HI, VA) Idaho Human Rights Day (ID) Inauguration Day (federal quadrennial) Kansas Day (KS) Makar Sankranti / Pongal (NJ, religious) Robert E. Lee Day (FL) Stephen Foster Memorial Day (36) The Eighth (LA) Three Kings' Day (PR, VI, religious) World Religion Day (NJ, religious) January–February Super Bowl Sunday Chinese New Year / Lunar New Year (NJ, NY, cultural, religious) Vasant Panchami (NJ, religious) February American Heart Month Black History Month Washington's Birthday / Presidents' Day (federal) Valentine's Day Birthday of Luis Muñoz Marín (PR) Candlemas (NJ, religious) Charles Darwin Day / Darwin Day (CA, DE) Day of Remembrance (CA, OR, WA, cultural) Georgia Day (GA) Groundhog Day Imbolc (NJ, religious) Lincoln's Birthday (CA, CT, IL, IN, MO, NJ, NY, WV) National Girls and Women in Sports Day National Freedom Day (36) Nirvana Day (NJ, religious) Presentation of Our Lord to the Temple (NJ, religious) Promised Reformer Day (religious) Ronald Reagan Day (CA) Rosa Parks Day (CA, MO) Saviours' Day (religious) Susan B. Anthony Day (CA, FL, NY, WI, WV, proposed federal) Tu B’shvat (NJ, religious) February–March Mardi Gras Ash Wednesday (NJ, PR, religious) Carnival (PR, VI, religious) Clean Monday (NJ, religious) Courir de Mardi Gras (religious) Intercalary Days (NJ, religious) Mahashivaratri (NJ, religious) Purim (NJ, religious) Shrove Tuesday (NJ, religious) Super Tuesday March Irish-American Heritage Month National Colon Cancer Awareness Month Women's History Month Saint Patrick's Day (religious) Spring break (week) Annunciation of the Virgin Mary / Annunciation of the Theotokos (NJ, religious) Casimir Pulaski Day (IL) Cesar Chavez Day (CA, CO, TX, proposed federal) Emancipation Day in Puerto Rico (PR, cultural) Evacuation Day (Suffolk County, MA) Harriet Tubman Day (NY) Hola Mohalla (NJ, religious) Holi (NY, NJ, religious) L. Ron Hubbard’s Birthday (NJ, religious) Lailat al-Mi'raj (NJ, religious) Liberation and Freedom Day (Charlottesville, VA, cultural) Mardi Gras (AL (in two counties), LA) Maryland Day (MD) National Poison Prevention Week (week) Nowruz (NJ, cultural, religious) Ostara (NJ, religious) Prince Jonah Kūhiō Kalanianaʻole Day (HI) Promised Messiah Day (religious) Saint Joseph's Day (religious) Seward's Day (AK) Texas Independence Day (TX) Town Meeting Day (VT) Transfer Day (VI) March–April Easter (religious) Good Friday (CT, NC, PR, NJ, VI, religious) Hanuman Jayanti (NJ, religious) Holy Thursday (NJ, PR, VI, religious) Holy Week (PR, religious, week) Lazarus Saturday (NJ, religious) Mahavir Janma Kalyanak (NJ, religious) Mesha Sankranti / Hindu New Year (religious) Palm Sunday (NJ, PR, religious) Passover (NJ, religious) Easter Monday / Bright Monday (NJ, VI religious) Ramnavami (NJ, religious) Chandramana Yugadi / Souramana Yugadi (NJ, religious) April Confederate History Month 420 April Fools' Day Arbor Day Birthday of José de Diego (PR) Confederate Memorial Day (AL, MS) Days of Remembrance of the Victims of the Holocaust (week) Earth Day Emancipation Day (cultural) Thomas Jefferson's Birthday (AL) Lag B’Omer (NJ, religious) Last Friday of Great Lent (NJ, religious) Laylat al-Qadr (NJ, religious) Pascua Florida (FL) Patriots' Day (MA, ME) Ridván (NJ, religious) San Jacinto Day (TX) Siblings Day Walpurgis Night (religious) Yom Ha'atzmaut (NJ, cultural, religious) May Asian Pacific American Heritage Month Jewish American Heritage Month Memorial Day (federal) Mother's Day (36) Cinco de Mayo Ascension of Baháʼu'lláh (NJ, religious) Ascension of Our Lord (NJ, religious) Caliphate Day (religious) Declaration of the Bab (NJ, religious) Harvey Milk Day (CA) International Workers' Day / May Day (CA, unofficial, proposed state) Law Day (36) Loyalty Day (36) Malcolm X Day (CA, IL, proposed federal) Military Spouse Day National Day of Prayer (36) National Day of Reason National Defense Transportation Day (36) National Maritime Day (36) Milad Syedna Mufaddal Saifuddin (NJ, religious) Peace Officers Memorial Day (36) Pentecost (NJ, religious) Shavuot (NJ, religious) Truman Day (MO) Vesak / Buddha's Birthday (NJ, religious) June Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Pride Month Father's Day (36) Bunker Hill Day (Suffolk County, MA) Carolina Day (SC) Emancipation Day In Texas / Juneteenth (TX, cultural) Fast of the Holy Apostles (NJ, religious) Flag Day (36, proposed federal) Helen Keller Day (PA) Honor America Days (3 weeks) Jefferson Davis Day (AL, FL) Kamehameha Day (HI) Litha (NJ, religious) Martyrdom of Guru Arjan Dev Sahib (NJ, religious) Odunde Festival (Philadelphia, PA, cultural) Senior Week (week) Saint John's Day (PR, religious) West Virginia Day (WV) July Independence Day (federal) Asalha Puja Day (NJ, religious) Birthday of Don Luis Muñoz Rivera (PR) Birthday of Dr. José Celso Barbosa (PR) Emancipation Day in the U.S. Virgin Islands (VI, cultural) Guru Purnima (NJ, religious) Khordad Sal (NJ, religious) Lā Hoʻihoʻi Ea (HI, unofficial, cultural) Martyrdom of the Báb (NJ, religious) Parents' Day (36) Pioneer Day (UT) Puerto Rico Constitution Day (PR) July–August Summer vacation Hajj (NJ, religious) Tisha B'Av (NJ, religious) Yawm al-Arafa (NJ, religious) August American Family Day (AZ) Barack Obama Day in Illinois (IL) Bennington Battle Day (VT) Dormition of the Theotokos (NJ, religious) Eid-e-Ghadeer (NJ, religious) Fast in Honor of the Holy Mother of Lord Jesus (NJ, religious) Feast of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary (NJ, religious) Hawaii Admission Day / Statehood Day (HI) Krishna Janmashtami (NJ, religious) Lammas (NJ, religious) Lyndon Baines Johnson Day (TX) Naga Panchami (NJ, religious) National Aviation Day (36) Paryushana (NJ, religious) Raksha Bandhan (NJ, religious) Transfiguration of the Lord (NJ, religious) Victory Day (RI) Women's Equality Day (36) September Prostate Cancer Awareness Month National Childhood Cancer Awareness Month Labor Day (federal) Brazilian Day (NY, cultural) California Admission Day (CA) Carl Garner Federal Lands Cleanup Day (36) Constitution Day (36) Constitution Week (week) Defenders Day (MD) Elevation of the Holy Cross (NJ, religious) Feast of San Gennaro (NY, cultural, religious) Ganesh Chaturthi (NJ, religious) Gold Star Mother's Day (36) His Holiness Sakya Trizin’s Birthday (NJ, religious) Mabon (NJ, religious) National Grandparents Day (36) National Payroll Week (week) Nativity of Mary / Nativity of the Theotokos (NJ, religious) Native American Day (proposed federal) Patriot Day (36) September–October Hispanic Heritage Month Chehlum Imam Hussain (NJ, religious) Oktoberfest Pitri Paksha (religious) Rosh Hashanah / Feast of Trumpets (TX, NJ, NY, religious) Shemini Atzeret (NJ, religious) Simchat Torah (NJ, religious) Vijaya Dashami (religious) Yom Kippur / Day of Atonement (TX, NJ, NY, religious) October Breast Cancer Awareness Month Disability Employment Awareness Month Filipino American History Month LGBT History Month Columbus Day (federal) Halloween Alaska Day (AK) Child Health Day (36) General Pulaski Memorial Day German-American Day Indigenous Peoples' Day (VT) International Day of Non-Violence Leif Erikson Day (36) Missouri Day (MO) Nanomonestotse (cultural) National School Lunch Week (week) Native American Day in South Dakota (SD) Nevada Day (NV) Spirit Day (cultural) Sweetest Day Sukkot / Feast of Tabernacles (NJ, religious) Virgin Islands–Puerto Rico Friendship Day (PR, VI) White Cane Safety Day (36) October–November Birth of the Báb (NJ, religious) Birth of Baháʼu'lláh (NJ, religious) Day of the Dead (VI) Diwali (NJ, NY, religious) Mawlid al-Nabi (NJ, religious) November Native American Indian Heritage Month Veterans Day (federal) Thanksgiving (federal) Ascension of ‘Abdu’l Baha (NJ, religious) All Saints' Day (NJ, religious) Beginning of the Nativity Fast (NJ, religious) Beltane / Samhain (NJ, religious) Barack Obama Day in Alabama (Perry County, AL) D. Hamilton Jackson Day (VI) Day after Thanksgiving (24) Day of the Covenant (NJ, religious) Discovery of Puerto Rico Day (PR) Election Day (CA, DE, HI, KY, MT, NJ, NY, OH, PR, VA, WV, proposed federal) Family Day (NV) Guru Nanak Gurpurab (NJ, religious) Hanukkah (NJ, religious) Lā Kūʻokoʻa (HI, unofficial, cultural) Martyrdom of Guru Tegh Bahadur (NJ, religious) Native American Heritage Day (MD, WA, cultural) Presentation of the Theotokos to the Temple (NJ, religious) Unthanksgiving Day (cultural) Urus Mubarak of Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin (NJ, religious) December Christmas (religious, federal) New Year's Eve Advent Sunday (NJ, religious) Alabama Day (AL) Birthday of Guru Gobind Singh Sahib (NJ, religious) Bodhi Day (NJ, religious) Chalica (religious) Christmas Eve (KY, NC, SC, PR, VI) Day after Christmas (KY, NC, SC, TX, VI) Festivus HumanLight Hanukkah (religious, week) Immaculate Conception (NJ, religious) Indiana Day (IN) Kwanzaa (cultural, week) Milad Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin (NJ, religious) National Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day (36) Nativity of Jesus (NJ, religious) Old Year's Night (VI) Pan American Aviation Day (36) Pancha Ganapati (religious, week) Rosa Parks Day (OH, OR) Solemnity of Mary, Mother of God (NJ, religious) Wright Brothers Day (36) Yule (NJ, religious) Zartosht No-Diso (NJ, religious) Varies (year round) Eid al-Adha (NJ, NY, religious) Eid al-Fitr (NJ, NY, religious) Islamic New Year (NJ, religious) Navaratri (NJ, religious, four times a year) Obon (NJ, religious) Onam (NJ, religious) Ramadan (religious, month) Ulambana (NJ, religious) Yawm Aashura (NJ, religious) Legend: (federal) = federal holidays, (abbreviation) = state/territorial holidays, (religious) = religious holidays, (cultural) = holiday related to a specific racial/ethnic group or sexual minority, (week) = week-long holidays, (month) = month-long holidays, (36) = Title 36 Observances and Ceremonies Bold indicates major holidays commonly celebrated in the United States, which often represent the major celebrations of the month. See also: Lists of holidays, Hallmark holidays, public holidays in the United States, New Jersey, New York, Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands. Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Election_Day_(United_States)&oldid=953565950" Categories: Elections in the United States State holidays in the United States November observances Tuesday observances Hidden categories: Wikipedia indefinitely move-protected pages Infobox holiday with missing field Infobox holiday (other) All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from August 2016 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages العربية Dansk Français Хальмг 한국어 Bahasa Indonesia עברית Nederlands 日本語 Українська 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 27 April 2020, at 21:53 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view