https://www.facebook.com/FLOTUS/?ref=py_c
First Lady Melania Trump - Home | Facebook
Jump to Sections of this page Accessibility Help Press alt + / to open this menu Facebook Email or Phone Password Forgot account? Home Posts Videos Photos About Community See more of First Lady Melania Trump on Facebook Log In orCreate New Account See more of First Lady Melania Trump on Facebook Log In Forgot account? orCreate New Account Not Now CommunitySee All 2,204,187 people like this 2,379,056 people follow this AboutSee All www.BeBest.gov Government Official Page TransparencySee More Facebook is showing information to help you better understand the purpose of a Page. See actions taken by the people who manage and post content. Page created - January 12, 2017 People 2,204,187 likes Related Pages President Donald J. Trump Government Official Melania Trump Public Figure Ivanka Trump Public Figure Donald J. Trump Political Candidate Hillary Clinton Politician Vice President Mike Pence Government Official Barack Obama Politician Selena Gomez Musician/Band Lara Trump Public Figure Donald Trump Jr. Public Figure FBI – Federal Bureau of Investigation Government Organization Team Trump Political Organization Vladimir Putin Politician Mike Pence Politician Fox News Media/News Company Eric Trump Public Figure Sarah Huckabee Sanders Public Figure Ben Shapiro News Personality Diamond And Silk Public Figure Fox & Friends TV Show See Moretriangle-down English (US) · Español · Português (Brasil) · Français (France) · Deutsch Privacy · Terms · Advertising · Ad Choices · Cookies · More Facebook © 2020 Posts First Lady Melania Trump 22 hrs · A reminder of some practical ways to keep our families safe and healthy. It looks like you may be having problems playing this video. If so, please try restarting your browser. Close A Reminder from First Lady Melania Trump Posted by First Lady Melania Trump 109,461 Views First Lady Melania Trump April 24 at 1:25 PM · The White House April 24 at 1:21 PM · #BeBest care packages are on their way to hospitals across the country! A small token of appreciation from First Lady Melania Trump for their hard work, compassion, and kindness during these difficult times. See All Videos A Message from First Lady Melania Trump for Seniors 28K 2.8K Easter Egg Roll Coloring Sheets Compilation 13K 899 Mrs. Trump at Children's National 16K 1.2K See All See More