https://www.facebook.com/officialteamtrump/?ref=py_c
Team Trump - Home | Facebook
Jump to Sections of this page Accessibility Help Press alt + / to open this menu Facebook Email or Phone Password Forgot account? Home Posts Videos Photos About Community See more of Team Trump on Facebook Log In orCreate New Account See more of Team Trump on Facebook Log In Forgot account? orCreate New Account Not Now CommunitySee All 524,462 people like this 586,563 people follow this AboutSee All Contact Team Trump on Messenger www.donaldjtrump.com Political Organization · Community Page TransparencySee More Facebook is showing information to help you better understand the purpose of a Page. See actions taken by the people who manage and post content. Confirmed Page Owner: DONALD J. TRUMP FOR PRESIDENT, INC. People 524,462 likes Related Pages President Donald J. Trump Government Official Melania Trump Public Figure Donald J. Trump Political Candidate First Lady Melania Trump Government Official Donald Trump Jr. Public Figure Lara Trump Public Figure Ivanka Trump Public Figure Mike Pence Politician Fox News Media/News Company Sarah Huckabee Sanders Public Figure Republican Party Interest POTUS 45 Government Official Judicial Watch Nonprofit Organization Fox News Update Show Candace Owens Public Figure Brad Parscale Political Party The Trump Organization Corporate Office Vice President Mike Pence Government Official Fox & Friends TV Show Sean Hannity News Personality See Moretriangle-down PagesOtherCommunityTeam Trump English (US) · Español · Português (Brasil) · Français (France) · Deutsch Privacy · Terms · Advertising · Ad Choices · Cookies · More Facebook © 2020 Posts Team Trump 10 hrs · Thanks to President Trump the U.S. has a ventilator surplus and we will be sending ventilators to other countries battling the #Coronavirus! "We're getting a lot more in than we're sending out," Jared Kushner said about ventilators during a Tuesday meeting. newsweek.com Trump says federal ventilator stockpile may soon be big enough to help other countries "We're getting a lot more in than we're sending out," Jared Kushner said about ventilators during a Tuesday meeting. "We're getting a lot more in than we're sending out," Jared Kushner said about ventilators during a Tuesday meeting. Team Trump 11 hrs · TOMORROW: Join Women for Trump Empower Hour hosted by Kimberly Guilfoyle with special guests Madison Gesiotto, Katrina Campins and Dr. Gina Loudon at 8:00 pm ET! RSVP: bit.ly/2zCZ7c9 #WomenForTrump See All Videos Very Dishonest Media 3.7K 573 Coronavirus could have been stopped in China! 2.3K 339 China would own America If Biden Wins 5.2K 772 See All See More