https://www.facebook.com/BillGates/?ref=py_c
Bill Gates - Home | Facebook
Jump to Sections of this page Accessibility Help Press alt + / to open this menu Facebook Email or Phone Password Forgot account? Home About Posts Photos Videos Notes Community See more of Bill Gates on Facebook Log In orCreate New Account See more of Bill Gates on Facebook Log In Forgot account? orCreate New Account Not Now CommunitySee All 21,105,341 people like this 28,007,731 people follow this AboutSee All Contact Bill Gates on Messenger gatesnot.es/facebook Public Figure Page TransparencySee More Facebook is showing information to help you better understand the purpose of a Page. See actions taken by the people who manage and post content. Page Owner: Bill Gates People 21,105,341 likes Related Pages Albert Einstein Public Figure Donald J. Trump Political Candidate Barack Obama Politician Cristiano Ronaldo Athlete Tom Cruise Public Figure Mr Bean Comedian Narendra Modi Politician NASA Earth Government Website Will Smith Producer Melinda Gates Public Figure Dr Zakir Naik Public Figure Michelle Obama Public Figure NASA Solar System Exploration Government Organization Gates Foundation Nonprofit Organization William Shakespeare Author President Donald J. Trump Government Official Melania Trump Public Figure Hillary Clinton Politician Robert Kiyosaki Entrepreneur Leo Messi Athlete See Moretriangle-down Pages Liked by This Page Chan Zuckerberg Initiative Microsoft United Nations Foundation Gates Foundation Melinda Gates Breakthrough Energy World Economic Forum Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance End Polio Now World Health Organization (WHO) Trevor Noah Rotary International Obama Foundation The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria PATH Khan Academy TED Windows LearnZillion See Moretriangle-down PagesPublic FigureBill Gates English (US) · Español · Português (Brasil) · Français (France) · Deutsch Privacy · Terms · Advertising · Ad Choices · Cookies · More Facebook © 2020 Posts Bill Gates April 23 at 9:35 AM · We don't yet have all the tools we need to stop the novel coronavirus and safely re-open the economy. But they are on the horizon. The scientific advances we need to stop COVID-19. gatesnotes.com The first modern pandemic The scientific advances we need to stop COVID-19. The scientific advances we need to stop COVID-19. Bill Gates April 12 at 5:44 PM · Nicholas Kristof does an amazing job capturing the heroism of the health care workers on the front lines of the coronavirus fight. Nicholas Kristof April 11 at 8:52 AM · "If people saw this, they would stay home," a medical worker told me as she gestured around the hospital "hot zone" full of #Covid patients. One doctor, Nicole ...Del Valle, spends the day fighting for patients' lives, reassuring them, intubating them -- and then she goes home and cries. A video journalist and I spent two days inside the "hot zone," and I hope you'll read this piece and watch the video. And if you know someone who isn't taking social distancing seriously, please share with them. nyti.ms/3a1GATB See More “If people saw this, they would stay home.” What the war against the coronavirus looks like inside two Bronx hospitals. nytimes.com Opinion | Life and Death in the ‘Hot Zone’ “If people saw this, they would stay home.” What the war against the coronavirus looks like inside two Bronx hospitals. “If people saw this, they would stay home.” What the war against the coronavirus looks like inside two Bronx hospitals. See All Photos See All See More