https://www.facebook.com/realCandaceOwens/?ref=py_c
Candace Owens - Home | Facebook
Jump to Sections of this page Accessibility Help Press alt + / to open this menu Facebook Email or Phone Password Forgot account? Home Posts Reviews Videos Photos About Community See more of Candace Owens on Facebook Log In orCreate New Account See more of Candace Owens on Facebook Log In Forgot account? orCreate New Account Not Now CommunitySee All 1,467,153 people like this 1,809,126 people follow this AboutSee All Contact Candace Owens on Messenger www.youtube.com/channel/UCL0u5uz7KZ9q-pe-VC8TY-w Public Figure Page TransparencySee More Facebook is showing information to help you better understand the purpose of a Page. See actions taken by the people who manage and post content. Page Owner: Candace Owens LLC People 1,467,153 likes Related Pages President Donald J. Trump Government Official Candace Owens for President 2024 Public Figure Dan Crenshaw Political Candidate Dan Bongino Public Figure Tucker Carlson Public Figure Donald J. Trump Political Candidate The Ben Shapiro Show Show Ben Shapiro News Personality Congressman Dan Crenshaw Government Official The Dan Bongino Show Show Diamond And Silk Public Figure Sarah Huckabee Sanders Public Figure Charlie Kirk Public Figure Jim Jordan Government Official Fox News Media/News Company Tucker Carlson Tonight TV Show The Hodgetwins Comedian Terrence K Williams Comedian PragerU Nonprofit Organization Turning Point USA Nonprofit Organization See Moretriangle-down PagesPublic FigureCandace Owens English (US) · Español · Português (Brasil) · Français (France) · Deutsch Privacy · Terms · Advertising · Ad Choices · Cookies · More Facebook © 2020 Posts Candace Owens 21 hrs · According to CDC reports— 2020 is working out to be the lowest flu death season of the decade. 20,000 flu deaths took place before Covid-19 in January, and then only 4,000 deaths thereafter. To give you context: 80,000 Americans died of the flu in 2019. It’s a miracle! Candace Owens 22 hrs · I broke this story 2 months ago, and was called a "conspiracy theorist". It feels so good to be vindicated. Last night, Tucker Carlson honorably admitted that he fell for the initial hype, and now realizes that the virus is not as deadly as the experts predicted. When I started reporting on #coronavirus it was difficult because every single person was convinced it was really as deadly as the journalists were saying, and that I was spreading misinformation. Now things have shi...fted and virtually everyone is admitting they were wrong. If nothing else, this pandemic should teach us the following: 1) Just because a lie is said a million times, doesn't make it true. 2) Our subconscious works at a faster pace than our conscious. Remember to trust your gut. 3) The speed at which Americans were willing to sacrifice their liberties for a false sense of security should disgust and alarm everyone. 4) The mainstream media is poisonous. 5) Stand up for what you believe in. It's better than being popular. https://www.dailywire.com/…/yes-hospitals-get-paid-more-for… See More Hospitals get paid more money if a patient is coded for the novel coronavirus, even if they haven’t been tested in some states, multiple fact-checking sites have confirmed, including USA Today, Politifact, and Snopes. Hospitals get a 20% add-on for COVID-19-coded patients and roughly three tim... dailywire.com Yes, Hospitals Get Paid More For Coronavirus-Coded Patients, Even If They Haven’t Been Tested Hospitals get paid more money if a patient is coded for the novel coronavirus, even if they haven’t been tested in some states, multiple fact-checking sites have confirmed, including USA Today, Politifact, and Snopes. Hospitals get a 20% add-on for COVID-19-coded patients and roughly three tim... Hospitals get paid more money if a patient is coded for the novel coronavirus, even if they haven’t been tested in some states, multiple fact-checking sites have confirmed, including USA Today, Politifact, and Snopes. Hospitals get a 20% add-on for COVID-19-coded patients and roughly three tim... See All Recommendations and Reviews Very intelligent passionate speaker. Loves all people from every demographic. April 25 Awesome love the brilliance intellect words at her disposal. I hope ppl can think and speak like her... around the globe. Keep up the great work See More April 22 I just saw Candice on Fox News with some crazy Leo. Candice you owned him and he is a joke !!! January 2 See All See More