https://www.facebook.com/michelleobama/?ref=py_c
Michelle Obama - Home | Facebook
Jump to Sections of this page Accessibility Help Press alt + / to open this menu Facebook Email or Phone Password Forgot account? Home About Photos Videos Posts Events Notes Community See more of Michelle Obama on Facebook Log In orCreate New Account See more of Michelle Obama on Facebook Log In Forgot account? orCreate New Account Not Now CommunitySee All 17,261,210 people like this 17,218,470 people follow this AboutSee All Contact Michelle Obama on Messenger www.obama.org Public Figure Page TransparencySee More Facebook is showing information to help you better understand the purpose of a Page. See actions taken by the people who manage and post content. Page created - February 29, 2008 People 17,261,210 likes Related Pages Barack Obama Politician Hillary Clinton Politician Oprah Winfrey Public Figure Will Smith Producer Albert Einstein Public Figure Melania Trump Public Figure Justin Trudeau Politician Bill Gates Public Figure Joe Biden Politician Morgan Freeman Actor Selena Gomez Musician/Band Nobel Prize Nonprofit Organization Donald J. Trump Political Candidate Melinda Gates Public Figure Obama Foundation Nonprofit Organization Tyler Perry Producer Maya Angelou Author Ellen DeGeneres Public Figure Taraji P. Henson Artist President Bill Clinton Public Figure See Moretriangle-down Pages Liked by This Page Joining Forces Joe Biden Barack Obama Let's Move All On The Line PagesPublic FigureMichelle Obama English (US) · Español · Português (Brasil) · Français (France) · Deutsch Privacy · Terms · Advertising · Ad Choices · Cookies · More Facebook © 2020 Photos See All Videos When We All Vote Voting Squad 7.9K 608 Happy International #DayoftheGirl, everyone! A year ago today, the Obama Foundation launched the Girls Opportunity Alliance to empower adolescent girls through education. Over the years, I’ve had the opportunity to meet so many inspiring girls from all around the world. I’ve seen the promise unique to each one of them—and the resolve they have inside to get their education. They’re the stories and the smiling faces that have inspired me to keep lifting up these young women so they can fulfill their boundless potential. Today, on the Day of the Girl, I'm thrilled to share the news that in December, I'll be traveling to Asia to meet with some of these girls and the organizations that support them. I’ll be going to Vietnam, where the Girls Opportunity Alliance is collaborating with Room to Read to shine a light on important efforts to empower girls. I can’t wait to share the incredible stories I find there with you, and in the meantime, I hope you’ll take a moment to check out this one from the Rock Paper Scissors Children's Fund, which provides bikes to girls to help them get to school quickly and safely. On the Day of the Girl and every day, I hope that all of you will find a way to support adolescent girls around the world. You don’t have to fly to Vietnam—you can host a bake sale, organize a project with your friends, get your office involved, and so much more. Check out the projects on the Girls Opportunity Alliance Fund and let me know how you’re taking action: gofundme.com/girlsopportunityalliance. 8.9K 641 Becoming Journal 11K 741 See All See More