https://www.facebook.com/VicePresidentPence/?ref=py_c
Vice President Mike Pence - Home | Facebook
Jump to Sections of this page Accessibility Help Press alt + / to open this menu Facebook Email or Phone Password Forgot account? Home About Videos Posts Photos Community See more of Vice President Mike Pence on Facebook Log In orCreate New Account See more of Vice President Mike Pence on Facebook Log In Forgot account? orCreate New Account Not Now CommunitySee All 884,731 people like this 2,795,983 people follow this AboutSee All Contact Vice President Mike Pence on Messenger www.whitehouse.gov Government Official CURRENT ELECTED OFFICE Vice President of the United States Republican Page TransparencySee More Facebook is showing information to help you better understand the purpose of a Page. See actions taken by the people who manage and post content. Page created - January 25, 2017 People 884,731 likes Related Pages President Donald J. Trump Government Official First Lady Melania Trump Government Official Mike Pence Politician Donald J. Trump Political Candidate Judicial Watch Nonprofit Organization Melania Trump Public Figure Ivanka Trump Public Figure Donald Trump Jr. Public Figure U.S. Department of State Government Organization U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) Government Organization Candace Owens Public Figure Sarah Huckabee Sanders Public Figure Republican Party Interest Team Trump Political Organization Judge Jeanine Pirro Public Figure Jesse Watters Public Figure Candace Owens for President 2024 Public Figure POTUS 45 Government Official Fox News Media/News Company House of Representatives (United States) Government Organization See Moretriangle-down English (US) · Español · Português (Brasil) · Français (France) · Deutsch Privacy · Terms · Advertising · Ad Choices · Cookies · More Facebook © 2020 Videos Vice President Mike Pence on CBS 14K 6.3K President Trump has been putting American workers first since day one and when the playing field is level, they can compete and win! 5.1K 2.1K Thanks to President Trump’s leadership, we’re living in the BEST economy in the history of the United States! 9.4K 2.5K See All Posts Vice President Mike Pence April 27 at 5:36 PM · It looks like you may be having problems playing this video. If so, please try restarting your browser. Close President Trump Holds a News Conference Posted by The White House 1,629,288 Views 1,629,288 Views The White House was live. April 27 at 2:00 PM · NEXT: President Trump holds a news conference. Vice President Mike Pence April 20 at 8:22 AM · Mike Pence April 20 at 8:17 AM · Thank you to Axon for teaming up with the National Police Foundation to provide 8,000 Police Departments with masks, gloves and hand sanitizer to keep our amazing men and women serving on the thin blue line safe as they protect our fellow Americans across the Country. The #gotyoucovered fundraiser aims to provide first responders with PPE to protect against COVID-19 infection policeone.com National Police Foundation, Axon team up to provide 1 million masks to first responders The #gotyoucovered fundraiser aims to provide first responders with PPE to protect against COVID-19 infection The #gotyoucovered fundraiser aims to provide first responders with PPE to protect against COVID-19 infection See All See More