https://www.whitehouse.gov/issues/land-agriculture/
Land & Agriculture | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Land & Agriculture From our country’s earliest days, agriculture has been the centerpiece of rural prosperity in America. But today’s farmers and ranchers face too many challenges bringing the fruits of their labor to market. With a focus on trade and regulatory reform, America can help its farmers feed millions more both here and abroad. Fact Sheets President Donald J. Trump Is Taking Action To Ensure The Safety Of Our Nation’s Food Supply Chain Land & Agriculture Apr 28, 2020 Executive Orders Executive Order on Delegating Authority Under the DPA with Respect to Food Supply Chain Resources During the National Emergency Caused by the Outbreak of COVID-19 Land & Agriculture Apr 28, 2020 Statements & Releases President Donald J. Trump Approves Tennessee Disaster Declaration Land & Agriculture Apr 24, 2020 Statements & Releases President Donald J. Trump Approves Kentucky Disaster Declaration Land & Agriculture Apr 24, 2020 Statements & Releases President Donald J. Trump Approves Mississippi Disaster Declaration Land & Agriculture Apr 23, 2020 Statements & Releases President Donald J. Trump Approves Washington Disaster Declaration Land & Agriculture Apr 23, 2020 Proclamations Proclamation on National Park Week, 2020 Land & Agriculture Apr 17, 2020 Statements & Releases President Donald J. Trump Approves Mississippi Disaster Declaration Land & Agriculture Apr 16, 2020 Proclamations Proclamation on National Agriculture Day, 2020 Land & Agriculture Mar 23, 2020 Statements & Releases President Donald J. Trump Approves South Carolina Disaster Declaration Land & Agriculture Mar 17, 2020 The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search