https://www.whitehouse.gov/about-the-white-house/the-grounds/
The Grounds | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search The Grounds The White House Building Camp David Air Force One Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard In this section HomeAbout The White House Tours & Events The Grounds Overview The White House Building The Vice President’s Residence & Office Eisenhower Executive Office Building Camp David Air Force One Past Administrations First Ladies Presidents Our Government Overview The Executive Branch The Legislative Branch The Judicial Branch The Constitution Federal Agencies & Commissions State & Local Government Elections & Voting Did you know? There are 132 rooms, 35 bathrooms, and 6 levels in the Residence. There are also 412 doors, 147 windows, 28 fireplaces, 8 staircases, and 3 elevators. Learn More The White House and its surrounding grounds serve as both the home of the President of the United States and First Family and as a museum of American history. The White House is a place where history continues to unfold. Every president since John Adams has occupied the White House, and the history of this building extends far beyond the construction of its walls. Located in Catoctin Mountain Park in Frederick County, Maryland, Camp David, known formally as the Naval Support Facility Thurmont, is the President’s country residence. Air Force One is used to describe any Air Force aircraft carrying the President. Today, this name refers to one of two highly customized Boeing 747-200B series aircraft. The Eisenhower Executive Office Building is located next to the West Wing and houses a majority of offices for White House staff. The Vice President’s Residence & Office is located on the grounds of the United States Naval Observatory (USNO)—the white 19th Century house at Number One Observatory Circle. Play 2:10 West Wing Renovation West Wing Renovation Share Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy to your clipboard The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search