https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/president-donald-j-trump-announces-appointments-executive-office-president-6/
President Donald J. Trump Announces Appointments for the Executive Office of the President | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Nominations & Appointments President Donald J. Trump Announces Appointments for the Executive Office of the President Issued on: April 21, 2020 Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard All News President Donald J. Trump Announces Appointments for the Executive Office of the President Today, President Donald J. Trump announced the following appointments for the Executive Office of the President: Dan J. Scavino will serve as Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff for Communications. John C. Fleming, M.D., will serve as Assistant to the President for Planning and Implementation. Kayleigh McEnany will serve as Assistant to the President and Press Secretary. Alyssa Farah will serve as Assistant to the President and Director of Strategic Communications. Nicholas F. Luna will serve as Assistant to the President and Director of Oval Office Operations. The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search