https://www.whitehouse.gov/people/michael-kratsios/
Michael Kratsios | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Michael Kratsios Chief Technology Officer of the United States Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard Download Image Michael Kratsios advises President Donald J. Trump on a broad range of technology policy issues and drives United States technology priorities and strategic initiatives. Michael has had an integral role in the development and execution of the Trump Administration’s national technology policy agenda since inauguration. Under his leadership, the White House launched initiatives in artificial intelligence, quantum computing, 5G and broadband communications, autonomous vehicles, commercial drones, STEM education, and advanced manufacturing. Michael encourages the development of emerging technologies in the United States, empowers American companies to commercialize and adopt new technologies, and improves and expands access to the tools necessary for Americans to succeed in the 21st century economy. He is also responsible for aligning the development of new technologies with the Administration’s priorities, including standing up for the American worker, defending American innovations abroad, and protecting the safety and security of the American people. Michael has represented the United States as the Head of Delegation at multiple international fora, including G7 Technology Ministerials in Italy, Canada, and France; G20 Digital Economy Ministerials in Argentina and Japan; and the OECD Ministerial Council Meeting in Paris. Prior to joining the White House, Michael was a Principal at Thiel Capital. Michael graduated from Princeton University and served as a Visiting Scholar at Beijing’s Tsinghua University. On August 1, 2019, the U.S. Senate unanimously confirmed Michael as the fourth Chief Technology Officer of the United States. Healthcare Connecting Americans to Coronavirus Information Online By: Michael Kratsios, Suzette Kent, and Ory Rinat Apr 15, 2020 Infrastructure & Technology AI That Reflects American Values By: Michael Kratsios Jan 8, 2020 Infrastructure & Technology How America Achieved “Quantum Supremacy” By: Michael Kratsios Oct 23, 2019 Infrastructure & Technology High Speed Broadband Is Fostering a New Era of Innovation for Rural America By: Michael Kratsios and Chris Liddell Feb 15, 2019 Infrastructure & Technology Why the U.S. Needs a Strategy for AI By: Michael Kratsios Feb 12, 2019 Infrastructure & Technology America Will Win the Global Race to 5G By: Michael Kratsios Oct 25, 2018 The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search