https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/these-30-days-how-you-can-help/
These 30 Days: How You Can Help | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Healthcare These 30 Days: How You Can Help April 2, 2020 3 minute read Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard All News This story first appeared in 1600 Daily, the White House’s evening newsletter. Subscribe now to get breaking news from President Trump before anyone else. President Trump announced updated guidelines this week to continue slowing the spread of Coronavirus in America. This 30-day window will be crucial: If every American does his or her part, the latest model suggests we could save 1 million or more U.S. lives. 🎬 Surgeon General: Why these next 30 days matter “We’re attacking the virus on every front with social distancing, economic support for our workers, rapid medical intervention—and very serious innovation—and banning dangerous foreign travel that threatens the health of our people,” President Trump said yesterday. The Administration’s response began in January. “Together, we have the power to save countless lives.” Developed by public health experts on the White House Coronavirus Task Force, these guidelines remain essential for containing the virus and protecting the most vulnerable among us: Listen and follow all directions from your state and local authorities. Avoid social gatherings, especially those with more than 10 people. Practice strict personal hygiene. Wash your hands and avoid touching your face. Sneeze or cough into a tissue or the inside of your elbow. Use pickup or delivery options instead of eating at restaurants or bars. Work from home if at all possible. Do not go to work if you feel sick. If someone in your household tests positive for Coronavirus, keep the entire family at home and contact your medical provider. If every American follows these guidelines, our country will be well on track to manage this outbreak and ultimately defeat this virus once and for all. “In this time of need, I know that every American will do their patriotic duty and help us to achieve a total victory,” President Trump says. 🎬 30 days to slow the spread: How to protect yourself and others SUBSCRIBE NOW 1600 Daily is the White House’s evening newsletter. Subscribe now to get breaking news from President Trump before anyone else. SIGN UP The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search