https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/president-trump-is-fighting-for-every-familys-freedom-to-choose-the-best-possible-education-for-their-children/
President Trump Is Fighting For Every Family’s Freedom To Choose The Best Possible Education For Their Children | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Fact Sheets President Trump Is Fighting For Every Family’s Freedom To Choose The Best Possible Education For Their Children Education Issued on: February 4, 2020 Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard All News Quote For decades, countless children have been trapped in failing government schools. In my Administration, these children are forgotten no longer. President Donald J. Trump CHAMPIONING EDUCATIONAL FREEDOM: President Donald J. Trump is ensuring our Nation’s children have the opportunity to fulfill their God-given potential. President Trump is calling on Congress to pass the Education Freedom Scholarships and Opportunity Act and give 1 million children the freedom to attend a school of their choice. The Administration’s school choice plan, which has more than 120 Congressional co-sponsors, would bolster existing State scholarship programs and encourage more States to pursue education freedom policies. This historic investment in America’s children creates a $5 billion annual tax credit for donations to state-based, locally-controlled scholarships. These scholarships will help families pay for expenses such as tuition, dual enrollment, out-of-district transportation, tutoring, and apprenticeships. IMPROVING OUTCOMES: For too long, forgotten children across our country have been failed by our education system. No parent should be forced to send their child to a failing school or one that is not a good fit. The “Nation’s Report Card” shows that nearly two-thirds of our children are not proficient readers. Countless families want to provide their children with better educational options, but they are being denied that opportunity. Surveys show millions more families would choose a charter school if they had access to one today. In Pennsylvania alone, 50,000 students remain on a scholarship waitlist after the State’s Democrat governor vetoed a school choice expansion bill. The American people recognize that students have the best chance to succeed when they receive an education tailored to their individual learning styles, talents, and interests. In a recent survey, 78% supported Education Freedom Scholarships, including 83% of African Americans, 83% of Latinos, and 78% of Millennials. EXPANDING EDUCATION OPPORTUNITY: President Trump has made it a priority of his Administration to promote high-quality educational opportunities for all students. President Trump and his Administration have taken action to restore local control over education and stop Federal overreach that limits teachers and students. The President has directed a minimum of $200 million in annual funding since 2017 to prioritize STEM and Computer Science education. This critical funding has helped more women and minorities access high-demand skills. The Administration has invested nearly $1.5 billion in the development of public charter schools, helping these schools grow to serve more than 3 million students. The President secured permanent funding for Historically Black Colleges and Universities. The President simplified the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) form, helping 20 million families who apply every year to qualify for Federal student aid. President Trump signed legislation reauthorizing the D.C. Opportunity Scholarship Program and reversed an Obama-era policy that denied scholarships to low-income students. The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search