https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/presidential-message-national-mentoring-month-2/
Presidential Message on National Mentoring Month | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Statements & Releases Presidential Message on National Mentoring Month Education Issued on: January 1, 2020 Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard All News Throughout National Mentoring Month, we recognize the selfless individuals who devote their time, energy, and expertise to ensure that future generations of Americans are better prepared to lead their communities, drive our economy, and safeguard our cherished freedoms. Each day, countless Americans impart valuable wisdom to our Nation’s young people. This guidance helps these future leaders transition into adulthood with the confidence and skillsets needed to pursue their American Dream. From teachers and coaches to business owners and faith and civic leaders, these mentors come from all walks of life and are united in their shared goal of improving the lives of America’s youth. To achieve their full potential, our youth need the encouragement and support of mentors in their communities. During National Mentoring Month, we are reminded of our responsibility to help foster environments where children and young adults can best develop their skills and embark on life’s journey with confidence and purpose. This month, I encourage all Americans to seek opportunities to enrich the lives of others and be a positive influence in the lives of young Americans. Through our joint efforts, we can empower the next generation to succeed and to strengthen our great Nation. The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search