https://www.whitehouse.gov/issues/healthcare/page/2/
Healthcare | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Healthcare Obamacare is hurting American families, farmers, and small businesses with skyrocketing health insurance costs. Moreover, soaring deductibles and copays have made already unaffordable plans unusable. Close to half of U.S. counties are projected to have only one health insurer on their exchanges in 2018. Replacing Obamacare will force insurance companies to compete for their customers with lower costs and higher-quality service. In the meantime, the President is using his executive authority to reduce barriers to more affordable options for Americans and U.S. businesses. Remarks Remarks by President Trump and Members of the Coronavirus Task Force in Press Briefing Healthcare Apr 21, 2020 Press Briefings Remarks by President Trump, Vice President Pence, and Members of the Coronavirus Task Force in Press Briefing Healthcare Apr 20, 2020 Presidential Memoranda Memorandum on Providing Continued Federal Support for Governors’ Use of the National Guard to Respond to COVID-19 and to Facilitate Economic Recovery Healthcare Apr 20, 2020 Press Briefings Remarks by President Trump, Vice President Pence, and Members of the Coronavirus Task Force in Press Briefing Healthcare Apr 20, 2020 Executive Orders Executive Order on National Emergency Authority to Temporarily Extend Deadlines for Certain Estimated Payments Healthcare Apr 19, 2020 Remarks Remarks by President Trump and Members of the Coronavirus Task Force in Press Briefing Healthcare Apr 18, 2020 Statements & Releases President Donald J. Trump Approves American Samoa Disaster Declaration Healthcare Apr 17, 2020 Remarks Remarks by President Trump, Vice President Pence, and Members of the Coronavirus Task Force in Press Briefing | April 17, 2020 Healthcare Apr 17, 2020 Remarks Remarks by President Trump, Vice President Pence, and Members of the Coronavirus Task Force in Press Briefing Healthcare Apr 16, 2020 Fact Sheets President Donald J. Trump Is Beginning the Next Phase In Our Fight Against Coronavirus: Guidelines for Opening Up America Again Healthcare Apr 16, 2020 Previous 1 2 3 4 … 61 Next The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search