https://www.whitehouse.gov/issues/healthcare/page/61/
Healthcare | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Healthcare Obamacare is hurting American families, farmers, and small businesses with skyrocketing health insurance costs. Moreover, soaring deductibles and copays have made already unaffordable plans unusable. Close to half of U.S. counties are projected to have only one health insurer on their exchanges in 2018. Replacing Obamacare will force insurance companies to compete for their customers with lower costs and higher-quality service. In the meantime, the President is using his executive authority to reduce barriers to more affordable options for Americans and U.S. businesses. Statements & Releases Readout of President Donald J. Trump’s Meeting with Congressman Elijah Cummings Healthcare Mar 8, 2017 Remarks Remarks by President Trump and Representative Steve Scalise in Meeting with the U.S. House Deputy Whip Team Healthcare Mar 7, 2017 Statements & Releases Readout of the Vice President’s Meeting with Representative Mark Meadows (R-NC) and Representative Jim Jordan (R-OH) Healthcare Mar 7, 2017 Statements & Releases Readout of President Trump’s Meeting with the House Republican Deputy Whip Team Healthcare Mar 7, 2017 Proclamations President Donald J. Trump Proclaims March 2017 as American Red Cross Month Healthcare Mar 1, 2017 Statements & Releases Readout of President Donald J. Trump’s Meeting with Republican Congressional Leaders Healthcare Mar 1, 2017 Fact Sheets President Trump is Confronting our Nation’s Broken Healthcare System Healthcare Feb 28, 2017 Remarks Remarks by President Trump in Listening Session with Health Insurance Company CEOs Healthcare Feb 27, 2017 Statements & Releases Readout of the President’s Lunch with Florida Governor Rick Scott and Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker Healthcare Feb 25, 2017 Statements & Releases President Trump Works To Make Drugs More Affordable, Create Jobs Healthcare Jan 31, 2017 Previous 1 … 60 61 Next The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search