https://www.whitehouse.gov/the-trump-administration/#main-content
The Administration | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search The Administration Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard In this section HomeThe Administration The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Mike Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy President Donald J. Trump promised that he would bring the best and brightest from across the country—not just inside Washington—to build his Administration. The President, alongside the Vice President and the Cabinet, are committed to returning prosperity and security to all Americans. Learn more about President Donald Trump, First Lady Melania Trump, Vice President Mike Pence, and Second Lady Karen Pence. realDonaldTrump Donald J. Trump President of the United States realDonaldTrump Donald J. Trump is the 45th President of the United States. He believes the United States has incredible potential and will go on to exceed anything that it has achieved in the past. Learn more VP Michael R. Pence Vice President of the United States VP Michael R. Pence is the 48th and current Vice President of the United States. Vice President Mike Pence remains grateful for the grace of God, the love and support of his family, and the blessings of liberty that are every American’s birthright. Learn more The Cabinet President Donald J. Trump, joined by Vice President Mike Pence, at a Cabinet meeting Thursday, August 16, 2018, in the Cabinet Room of the White House. The tradition of the Cabinet dates back to the beginnings of the Presidency itself. Established in Article II, Section 2 of the Constitution, the Cabinet’s role is to advise the President on any subject he may require relating to the duties of each member’s respective office. Learn more about President Trump’s cabinet. Executive Offices To provide the President with the support needed to govern effectively, the Executive Office of the President (EOP) was created in 1939 by President Franklin D. Roosevelt. The EOP has responsibility for tasks ranging from communicating the President’s message to the American people to promoting our trade interests abroad. Overseen by the White House Chief of Staff, the EOP has traditionally been home to many of the President’s closest advisors. Office of Management and Budget National Security Council Council of Economic Advisers Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy Council on Environmental Quality Disclosures Since 1995, the White House has been required to deliver a report to Congress listing the title and salary of every White House Office employee. This report is being publicly disclosed online as it is transmitted to Congress. See more White House disclosures. The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search