https://www.whitehouse.gov/the-trump-administration/academy-nominations/
Service Academy Nomination Process | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Service Academy Nomination Process Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard The Vice President is authorized to nominate individuals to the United States Military, Naval, and Air Force Academies but can not nominate to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and does not nominate to the U.S. Coast Guard Academy. The Vice President is the only authorized nominating authority who can nominate U.S. citizens without geographical restrictions. He may have a maximum number of five nominees in attendance at each authorized academy at any one time. Normally, he has one or two vacancies each year. In order to be entered into competition for a Vice Presidential nomination, applicants must complete the online nomination application during the application period of March 1 to January 31 preceding the year of entrance to the academies. The Office of the Vice President will not accept paper applications. Steps for the Service Academies Application Process Procedures for the Service Academies Application Process Service Academies Application Form Due to a large volume of applicants (usually several thousand per academy), the Vice President has authorized the academies to evaluate all applications and rank them according to qualifications. In screening candidates, the academies evaluate an individual’s high school or college academic record, results of the ACT and SAT tests, recommendations from individuals who are in a position to judge the applicant’s character and academic potential, and physical and medical qualifications. In view of this screening by the academies, it is important that all correspondence subsequent to actual application (e.g., letters of recommendation, high school and college transcripts and ACT/SAT examination results) be forwarded directly to the academy when requested. Do not send this information directly to the Vice President. Notification of those selected for a nomination is normally made during February or March of the year in which the class convenes. Any additional information regarding Vice Presidential nominations should be forwarded to the appropriate academy. The addresses are: ARMY The Director of Admissions ATTN: MAAR United States Military Academy West Point, New York 10996 Apply online at: https://www.westpoint.edu/admissions AIR FORCE Director of Admissions HQ USAFA/RRS 2304 Cadet Drive, Suite 2300 USAF Academy, CO 80840 Apply online at: http://www.academyadmissions.com/ NAVY Dean of Admissions (Code A) United States Naval Academy Annapolis, Maryland 21402 Apply online at: http://www.usna.edu/admissions/ The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search