https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/need-american-peoples-help-fight-coronavirus-now/
We Need the American People’s Help to Fight Coronavirus Now | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Healthcare We Need the American People’s Help to Fight Coronavirus Now March 18, 2020 2 minute read Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard By: Michael R. Pence Vice President of the United States All News “If all of us can take these important steps requested by the president over the next two weeks, then we can be confident that we will get through this, and we will see a better, healthier future for America.” We need the American people’s help to fight coronavirus now By Vice President Mike Pence USA Today March 18, 2020 In the fight against the coronavirus, the Trump administration is not just taking a whole of government approach, but a whole of America approach. … Now is a critical time. As the president said on Monday, over the next two weeks, there are actions that every American can and should take to help us slow the spread of the coronavirus. If we succeed in limiting the number of new cases, then we can dedicate more resources to the most vulnerable and save lives. As the president said, if you or anyone in your household is sick, then please stay home. The elderly and those with serious health conditions should also stay home and stay away from other people, even if they do not have symptoms of the coronavirus. No one should visit a nursing home, retirement home or long-term care facility unless to provide necessary care. All Americans should avoid unnecessary travel, restaurants, bars, public food courts and gathering in groups of more than 10 people. Kids should stay home from school, and Americans who do not work in our critical infrastructure — like health care or pharmaceuticals — should work from home. It’s always a good idea to practice common sense to protect your health and the health of your family, but it’s especially important right now. Use good hygiene. Wash your hands, especially after touching frequently used surfaces like doorknobs. Use disinfectant on frequently used items and surfaces. Avoid touching your face. If you have to sneeze, then use a tissue or the inside of your elbow. These steps might seem small, but they can make a big difference for your family, your community and our country. Stopping the spread of the coronavirus over these next two weeks can prevent many more cases in the future and even save the lives of those at risk. … Read the full op-ed here. The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search