https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/we-need-united-states-mexico-canada-agreement-trade/
We Need The United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement For Trade
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Economy & Jobs We Need The United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement For Trade October 7, 2019 1 minute read Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard By: Michael R. Pence Vice President of the United States All News On a recent visit to Arizona, I toured the proving grounds of manufacturing giant Caterpillar. Under President Trump’s administration, this iconic American business has been booming, but to keep this momentum going — for Caterpillar and businesses across the country — we’ve got to open more markets for selling U.S. products. That’s why I’m urging all Arizonans to call on Congress to pass the largest trade deal in American history: the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement. … The USMCA is a state-of-the-art trade deal, and if it becomes the law of the land it could serve as a template for trade deals in the future. According to the International Trade Commission, the USMCA will add more than $68 billion to our economy and create another 176,000 American jobs. That includes nearly 50,000 good manufacturing jobs like those at Caterpillar. And so, for Arizona, for the manufacturing industry, and for America, we’ve got to get this done. Mexico has already ratified the USMCA, and Canada is ready to move as soon as we do. It’s time for Congress to act. Read the full op-ed here. The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search