http://whitehouse.gov/bebest
BE BEST
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search BE BEST First Lady Melania Trump’s Initiative Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard Quote It remains our generation’s moral imperative to take responsibility and help our children manage the many issues they are facing today, including encouraging positive social, emotional, and physical habits... Melania Trump First Lady of the United States The mission of BE BEST is to focus on some of the major issues facing children today, with the goal of encouraging children to BE BEST in their individual paths, while also teaching them the importance of social, emotional, and physical health. BE BEST will concentrate on three main pillars: well-being, online safety, and opioid abuse. BE BEST will champion the many successful well-being programs that provide children with the tools and skills required for emotional, social, and physical health. The campaign will also promote established organizations, programs, and people who are helping children overcome some of the issues they face growing up in the modern world. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump meets with children affected by neonatal abstinence syndrome and staff of the Maternal Addiction, Treatment, Education and Research (MATER) program Wednesday, October 17, 2018, at the Thomas Jefferson University Hospital in Philadelphia. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump delivers remarks during the Family Online Safety Institute Annual Conference, Thursday, November 15, 2018, at the United States Institute of Peace in Washington, D.C. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump listens to an Xbox adaptive controller presentation by Dave McCarthy, Microsoft Corporate Vice President of Xbox Operations Monday, March 4, 2019, at the Microsoft Executive Briefing Center in Redmond, Washington. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump sits in on classes Thursday, October 4, 2018, at the Chipala Primary School in Lilongwe, Malawi. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump meets with patients and their families Thursday, December 13, 2018, during a Christmas visit to Children’s National Hospital in Washington, D.C. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump takes a photo of children participating in the White House Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day Thursday, April 25, 2019, on the South Lawn. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump along with Philip May, husband of British Prime Minister Theresa May meet with children Friday, July 13, 2018, at Royal Hospital Chelsea in London. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump visits with students in a 5th grade classroom Thursday, March 28, 2019, at West Gate Elementary School in West Palm Beach, Florida. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump participates in a discussion with panel moderator, Eric Bolling during an Opioid Town Hall Tuesday, March 5, 2019, at the Westgate Las Vegas Resort & Casino in Las Vegas. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump along with Philip May, husband of British Prime Minister Theresa May pose for photos with children Friday, July 13, 2018, at the Royal Hospital Chelsea in London. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump meets with mothers and children affected by neonatal abstinence syndrome Wednesday, October 17, 2018, at the Thomas Jefferson University Hospital Pavilion Building in Philadelphia. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump, joined by Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex Azar and Counselor to the President Kellyanne Conway, participates in a roundtable discussion Friday, August 24, 2018, at the Nationwide Children’s Hospital in Columbus, Ohio. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump participates in a roundtable on Neonatal Abstinence Syndrome Tuesday, July 24, 2018, at Monroe Carell Jr. Children’s Hospital at Vanderbilt in Nashville, Tennessee. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump greets students who attended her BE BEST policy initiative launch in the Kennedy Garden at the White House, Monday, May 7, 2018. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump meets with mothers and children Tuesday, October 2, 2018, in the Child Welfare Clinic, the original wing of the Greater Accra Regional Hospital in Accra, Ghana. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump along with Philip May, husband of British Prime Minister Theresa May meet and play with children Friday, July 13, 2018, at Royal Hospital Chelsea in London. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump poses for photos with students after an assembly at Albritton Middle School Monday, April 15, 2019, in Fort Bragg, North Carolina. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump participates in a panel discussion with moderator Eric Bolling at an Opioid Town Hall Wednesday, November 28, 2018, at Liberty University in Lynchburg Virginia. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump dances with children Friday, October 5, 2018 at The Nest: Children Home Nairobi, Kenya. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump participates in classroom activities Monday, March 4, 2019, at the Dove School of Discovery Elementary School in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks A student holds one of the Be Best soccer balls that First Lady Melania Trump donated to the schoolchildren at the Chipala Primary School Thursday, October 4, 2018, in Lilongwe, Malawi. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump visits with kids at an activities table during her visit Tuesday, July 24. 2018, to the Monroe Carell Jr. Children’s Hospital at Vanderbilt in Nashville, Tennessee. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump visits with children Friday, August 24, 2018, at the Nationwide Children’s Hospital in Columbus, Ohio. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump and Stephen Balkam, CEO of the Family Online Safety Institute, hold a discussion with students about online safety at the Annual FOSI Conference, Thursday, November 15, 2018, at the United States Institute of Peace in Washington, D.C. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks President Donald J. Trump, joined by First Lady Melania Trump, poses with students in the Oval Office after signing a Proclamation establishing Be Best Day, Monday, May 7, 2018. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump and Second Lady Karen Pence applaud the performance by the Albritton Middle School Chorus Monday, April 15, 2019, at Albritton Middle School in Fort Bragg, North Carolina. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump announces her upcoming travel to Africa to promote her Be Best initiative in New York. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump participates in a discussion on online safety and the First Lady’s BE BEST program Monday, March 4, 2019, at the Microsoft Executive Briefing Center in Redmond, Washington. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump reads to children Friday, October 5, 2018 at The Nest: Children Home Nairobi, Kenya. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump visits with children and their parents participating in the White House Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day Thursday, April 25, 2019, in the East Room. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump meets with students attending the national conference of Students Against Destructive Decisions on Sunday, June 24, 2018, in Tyson’s Corner, Virginia. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump arrives at the Chipala Primary School in Lilongwe, Malawi Thursday, October 4, 2018. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump visits with children and their parents participating in the White House Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day Thursday, April 25, 2019, in the East Room. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump visits with students in a 3rd grade classroom Thursday, March 28, 2019, at West Gate Elementary School in West Palm Beach, Florida. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump poses for a photo with students in a 2nd grade classroom Thursday, March 28, 2019, at West Gate Elementary School in West Palm Beach, Florida. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump participates in classroom activities Monday, March 4, 2019, at the Dove School of Discovery Elementary School in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump convenes an Interagency Working Group on Youth Programs, Monday, March 18, 2019, in the State Dining Room of the White House. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump delivers remarks at an Opioid Town Hall Wednesday, November 28, 2018, at Liberty University in Lynchburg Virginia. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump stops by a Be Best decorated United States Postal Service drop box in the Cross Hall of the White House Thursday, April 25, 2019, during Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks Hand-drawn signs welcoming First Lady Melania Trump and her Be Best initiative are seen on the walls at the Chipala Primary School Thursday, October 4, 2018, in Lilongwe, Malawi. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump convenes an Interagency Working Group on Youth Programs, Monday, March 18, 2019, in the State Dining Room of the White House. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump participates in hopscotch on the South Lawn Monday, April 22, 2019, during the 141st White House Easter Egg Roll. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump meets with Bronte Johnson of Blacklick, Ohio, one of the fifteen student members of Microsoft’s Council on Digital Good Thursday, July 19, 2018, at the Microsoft Innovation and Policy Center in Washington, D.C. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks President Donald J. Trump and First Lady Melania Trump receive an opioid briefing by senior administration officials in the Oval Office Tuesday, March 19, 2019. 1/? THREE PILLARS OF BE BEST WELL-BEING By promoting values such as healthy living, encouragement, kindness, and respect, parents, teachers, and other adults can help prepare children for their futures. With those values as a solid foundation, children will be able to better deal with the evils of the opioid crisis and avoid negative social media interaction. Play 1:00 First Lady Melania Trump Visits Students in Florida First Lady Melania Trump Visits Students in Florida Share Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy to your clipboard ONLINE SAFETY When children learn positive online behaviors early-on, social media can be used in productive ways and can effect positive change. Mrs. Trump believes that children should be both seen and heard, and it is our responsibility as adults to educate and reinforce to them that when they are using their voices—whether verbally or online—they must choose their words wisely and speak with respect and compassion. Play 00:30 First Lady Melania Trump Visits Microsoft in Washington First Lady Melania Trump Visits Microsoft in Washington Share Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy to your clipboard OPIOID ABUSE Opioid dependence, addiction, and abuse are an epidemic in this country. BE BEST will support the families and children affected by this crisis, bring attention to neonatal abstinence syndrome, and help educate parents on the importance of healthy pregnancies. Play 1:02 First Lady Melania Trump Delivers Remarks at Liberty University First Lady Melania Trump Delivers Remarks at Liberty University Share Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy to your clipboard BE BEST INTERNATIONAL First Lady Melania Trump joined President Trump on his trip to the United Kingdom in July of 2018. While in London, the First Lady visited the Royal Hospital Chelsea (RHC), which cares for over 300 Chelsea Pensioners (former soldiers of the British Army), along with local school children from St. George’s Church of England Primary School. At St. George’s, students are educated under the school’s motto “the best that we can be.” Mrs. Trump spent time learning more about what the motto means to each of the children, making poppies (a symbol of remembrance for fallen soldiers), and playing a lawn game known as bowls! In October of 2018, First Lady Melania Trump embarked on her first major solo international trip! She began her trip to Africa in Ghana where she toured Ridge Hospital, paid respects at the Cape Coast Castle, and more. Continuing on to Lilongwe, Malawi—known as the “warm heart of Africa”—Mrs. Trump visited Chipala Primary School and spoke with First Lady Mutharika on empowering children through education. In Nairobi, Kenya, the First Lady fed baby elephants at the Sheldrick Elephant Orphanage, toured Nairobi National Park, and visited with infants and children at Nest Children’s Home. On Mrs. Trump’s last stop in Cairo, she visited a few of Egypt’s many cultural sites including the Sphinx, and the Great Pyramid – one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World. She also received a briefing about USAID’s Water Table Reduction Project at the base of the Sphinx. Be Best International Play 00:57 First Lady Melania Trump Visits Ghana First Lady Melania Trump Visits Ghana Play 00:59 First Lady Melania Trump Visits Malawi First Lady Melania Trump Visits Malawi Play 00:35 First Lady Melania Trump Visits Kenya First Lady Melania Trump Visits Kenya Play 00:38 First Lady Melania Trump Visits Nairobi National Park First Lady Melania Trump Visits Nairobi National Park Play 00:47 First Lady Melania Trump Visits Egypt First Lady Melania Trump Visits Egypt Play 00:58 First Lady Melania Trump Visits Belgium, United Kingdom, and Finland First Lady Melania Trump Visits Belgium, United Kingdom, and Finland 1/? Activities For Kids To Do at Home Puzzle Be Best Word Search White House Word Search White House History Fun Facts To learn more about BE BEST, follow along with First Lady Melania Trump on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Please send questions and comments to BeBest@who.eop.gov. Parents, click here to read “Talking with Kids about Being Online,” a Federal Trade Commission booklet, promoted by First Lady Melania Trump. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump participates in a listening session with middle school students to discuss a wide range of issues facing today’s youth, in the Blue Room at the White House, Monday, April 9, 2018, in Washington, D.C. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump and Philip May, husband of British Prime Minister Theresa May, help schoolchildren make paper poppies Friday, July 13, 2018, at the Royal Hospital Chelsea in London. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks President Donald J. Trump, joined by First Lady Melania Trump in the Rose Garden at the White House, signs a Proclamation establishing Be Best Day, Monday, May 7, 2018, in Washington, D.C. Be Best is the First Lady’s initiative focusing on some of the major issues facing children today. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks President Donald J. Trump and First Lady Melania Trump meet with First Responders at the Manchester Central Fire Station, Monday, March 19, 2018, in Manchester, New Hampshire. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump and Philip May, husband of British Prime Minister Theresa May, play a game of bowls with Chelsea Pensioners and schoolchildren Friday, July 13, 2018, at the Royal Hospital Chelsea in London. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump visits with patients at Palm Beach Children’s Hospital at the St. Mary’s Medical Center in West Palm Beach, Florida, Thursday, March 29, 2018. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump participates in a listening session with middle school students to discuss a wide range of issues facing today’s youth, in the Blue Room at the White House, Monday, April 9, 2018, in Washington, D.C. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump meets with Erin Roberts of Sterling Heights, Michigan, one of the fifteen student members of Microsoft’s Council on Digital Good Thursday, July 19, 2018, at the Microsoft Innovation and Policy Center in Washington, D.C. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump visits young patients in the playroom at Cincinnati Children’s Hospital, Monday, February 5, 2018, in Cincinnati, Ohio. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump meets with students in the Kennedy Garden at the White House at her Be Best policy initiative rollout Monday, May 7, 2018, in Washington, D.C. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks) First Lady Melania Trump visits children at the Pediatric Hospital Bambino Gesu, Wednesday May 24, 2017, in Vatican City. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump meets with Sierra Williams-McLeod of Charlotte, North Carolina, and Judah Siegand of Brentwood, Tennessee, Thursday, July 19, 2018, at the Microsoft Innovation and Policy Center in Washington, D.C. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump participates in the President's Cup First Lady's Luncheon at One World Observatory, Wednesday, September 27, 2017, in New York. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump visits with patients at Palm Beach Children’s Hospital at the St. Mary’s Medical Center in West Palm Beach, Florida, Thursday, March 29, 2018. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump participates in a listening session with the fifteen student members of Microsoft’s Council on Digital Good Thursday, July 19, 2018, at the Microsoft Innovation and Policy Center in Washington, D.C. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump meets with Judah Siegand of Brentwood, Tennessee, one of the fifteen student members of Microsoft’s Council on Digital Good Thursday, July 19, 2018, at the Microsoft Innovation and Policy Center in Washington, D.C. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump recognizes Christian Bucks, a student from York, Pennsylvania, at her Be Best policy initiative rollout in the Rose Garden at the White House, Monday, May 7, 2018, in Washington, D.C. Bucks was congratulated for his development of the "Buddy Bench" which helped address loneliness and assist fellow students build new friendships in his elementary school. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump is joined by Betty Henderson during an Opioid Summit in the East Room of the White House, Thursday, March 1, 2018, in Washington, D.C. Betty wrote a letter to the First Lady asking for help to fight the opioid epidemic after losing her son to an opioid addiction. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump, joined by South Korean First Lady Kim Jung-sook, pose for photos with children, Tuesday, November 7, 2017, in the garden of the presidential residence, Blue House, in Seoul, South Korea. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump participates in a Toys for Tots event at Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling, Wednesday, December 13, 2017, in Washington, D.C. Download full size image Photo Credit: (Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump and Philip May, husband of British Prime Minister Theresa May, wave American and British flags with Chelsea Pensioners and schoolchildren Friday, July 13, 2018, at the Royal Hospital Chelsea in London. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump meets with staff members and physicians during a briefing at the Cincinnati Children’s Hospital, Monday, February 5, 2018, in Cincinnati, Ohio. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump presents awards at the International Women of Courage Award Ceremony at the U.S. State Department, Friday, March 23, 2018, in Washington, D.C. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump poses for photos at Lily’s Place, Tuesday, October 10, 2017, with clients and medical professionals, in Huntington, West Virginia. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump and Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos meet with students at Orchard Lake Middle School, Monday, October 23, 2017, in West Bloomfield Township, Michigan. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump participates in a cybersecurity and technology roundtable event in the State Dining Room at the White House, Tuesday, March 20, 2018, in Washington, D.C. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump visits with children at the American International School of Riyadh, Sunday, May 21, 2017, in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. Download full size image Photo Credit: (Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump visits with school children, Saturday, November 10, 2017, at Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson in Anchorage, Alaska, observing the Paws to Read program, encouraging literacy by getting kids to read to pets. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump meets with Kyle Kashuv, a student at Stoneman Douglas High School Thursday, March 8, 2018, at the White House, in Washington, D.C. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump and Philip May, husband of British Prime Minister Theresa May, play a game of bowls with Chelsea Pensioners and schoolchildren Friday, July 13, 2018, at the Royal Hospital Chelsea in London. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump visits children at the Pediatric Hospital Bambino Gesu, Wednesday May 24, 2017, in Vatican City. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump, joined by South Korean First Lady Kim Jung-sook, presents gifts to children, Tuesday, November 7, 2017, in the garden of the presidential residence, Blue House, in Seoul, South Korea. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump embraces a young child while visiting the Hadassah Medical Organization facility, Monday, May 22, 2017, in Jerusalem. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump participates in a harvesting and planting event with the Boys and Girls Club of Washington, Friday, September 22, 2017, in the White House Kitchen Garden on the South Lawn of the White House, in Washington, D.C. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump and Mrs. Karen Pence participate in a manufactured housing unit visit, Wednesday, December 6, 2017, in Rockport, Texas. Download full size image Photo Credit: Official White House Photo by Andrea Hanks First Lady Melania Trump visits children at the Pediatric Hospital Bambino Gesu, Wednesday May 24, 2017, in Vatican City. 1/? The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search