https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/visit-upstate-golisano-childrens-hospital-syracuse-new-york/
A Visit to Upstate Golisano Children’s Hospital in Syracuse, New York | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Healthcare A Visit to Upstate Golisano Children’s Hospital in Syracuse, New York June 20, 2018 2 minute read Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard By: Karen Pence Second Lady All News Download full size image What a treat to visit with D.J. during an art therapy session at Upstate Golisano Children’s Hospital. His art therapist, Maria Fazzini, was gracious enough to allow me to participate in the painting session. Download full size image D.J. gave me a painting of a dinosaur and a volcano. I shared my flowers with him. I asked him about why he likes working with Maria. He said it helps him relax. D.J. suffers from Cystic Fibrosis. Maria has been an art therapist at Upstate Golisano Children’s Hospital for three years. There is also a music therapist on staff. D.J. has also had the opportunity to work with her. I was so impressed that the hospital truly understood the importance of having these types of therapies to ease the stresses of children who are hospitalized. Maria uses a variety of techniques. She varies from working in a quiet area one on one to working in the child’s room to group sessions. Thank you for all you do to help these children heal in a peaceful, creative setting. Download full size image Art therapy is near and dear to my heart. To learn more about my initiative, Art Therapy: Healing with the HeART, click here. To stay updated on our events in the Office of the Second Lady, follow us on Twitter at @SecondLady. The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search