https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/educating-congressional-spouses-art-therapy-hospital-visit/
Educating Congressional Spouses about Art Therapy During a Hospital Visit | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Healthcare Educating Congressional Spouses about Art Therapy During a Hospital Visit June 14, 2018 2 minute read Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard By: Karen Pence Second Lady All News Download full size image Mrs. Karen Pence, joined by Congressional Spouses, participates in an art therapy session at Georgetown Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center, Wednesday, June 13, 2018. (Official White House Photos by Amy Rossetti) Thank you to all of the members of the Congressional Club for visiting Tracy’s Kids Art Therapy Program at Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center. We had a very enjoyable time with children and their parents creating our own gold medal awards. We were honored to have Noah Grove, a gold medal Paralympic hockey star with us. Noah is a former Tracy’s Kids patient. The kids and parents loved getting the opportunity to meet Noah and to hold his gold medal. Download full size image After visiting with the kids, we participated in a panel discussion with parents, patients, and Tracy, the art therapist who started Tracy’s Kids with Matt Gerson twenty years ago. Download full size image The stories were amazing. We were reminded once again of the power of art therapy. We heard stories of a “worry box” to hold the young boy’s worries; an “escape plan” devised by two patients, helping them focus on life after cancer treatment where they would escape in the hospital helicopter (complete with a full head of hair); a very young patient being able to express herself in pictures when she couldn’t verbalize what was troubling her; and many stories of children wanting to come back to the hospital to participate in art therapy. Thank you, Tracy, and all of the Tracy’s Kids art therapists for what you do. Tracy’ Kids is in seven facilities in five states. We are grateful to the congressional spouses for wanting to learn more about the power of art therapy. Download full size image The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search