https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/military-service-members-combat-pain-music-therapy/
Military Service Members Combat Pain through Music Therapy | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Healthcare Military Service Members Combat Pain through Music Therapy May 4, 2018 1 minute read Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard By: Karen Pence Second Lady All News Earlier this week, I had the privilege to visit yet another amazing NICoE center. Once again we heard of the teamwork utilized to help our service members recover from TBI and PTSD. It was especially moving and inspiring to spend time with Corporal Joseph Lange. He told of his healing journey after a sudden brain injury. The many months of therapy at Walter Reed has culminated with transitioning to the Intrepid Spirit Center on Camp Pendleton. There, his music therapist, Rebecca Vaudreuil, has helped him to return to his love of guitar playing. He played a song for us and shared how his outlook on life is positive and upbeat. He has even started mentoring another service member, teaching him how to play guitar. He looks forward to finishing college, possibly going to law school, and getting married. Thank you, National Intrepid Centers of Excellence. You are truly saving lives. And it was an honor to spend time with you. We also enjoyed two great roundtable discussions with some amazing military spouses at Marine Corps Air Station Miramar and Camp Pendleton. Thank you for your service and sacrifice! The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search