https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/art-saves-lives/
Art Saves Lives | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Healthcare Art Saves Lives May 2, 2018 1 minute read Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard By: Karen Pence Second Lady All News I got to experience the peaceful healing space at Phoenix’ Art Awakenings. I watched and listened as four amazing artists shared their recovery journeys. Once again, art therapy is saving lives. Art Awakenings has 18 locations around the state, employing 13 art therapists. They have been busy changing lives for 20 years and are pleased awareness is growing in Arizona for their profession. Last year, the governor of Arizona, Governor Ducey, signed a law that authorized the State Department of Health Services to contract for mental health and behavioral health services of certified art therapists. Way to go, Governor Ducey! Thank you to the four brave artists who shared their journey with me. And thank you for your gifts of your individual pieces of art. I will display them proudly in my office as I share your stories. And bravo to the amazing art therapists at Art Awakenings. Keep it up! Art saves lives!! Art therapy is near and dear to my heart. To learn more about my initiative, Art Therapy: Healing with the HeART, click here. To stay updated on our events in the Office of the Second Lady, follow us on Twitter at @SecondLady. The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search