https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/amazing-visit-new-art-therapy-studio/
An Amazing Visit to a New Art Therapy Studio | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Healthcare An Amazing Visit to a New Art Therapy Studio May 1, 2018 2 minute read Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard By: Karen Pence Second Lady All News It was so great to be back home again in Indiana. The new art therapy studio is now open at Riley Hospital for Children at IU Health in Indianapolis. To be able to spend some time in the studio with some amazing Riley Kids was a privilege. They were hard at work creating. Download full size image Thank you, Emily and Cassie, for all you do. Download full size image This studio space will benefit patients, their siblings and their parents for years to come. Keep up the great work! I hope to visit this summer to create another syringe art canvas!! Download full size image Art therapy is near and dear to my heart. To learn more about my initiative, Art Therapy: Healing with the HeART, click here. To stay updated on our events in the Office of the Second Lady, follow us on Twitter at @SecondLady. The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search