https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/showing-senate-spouses-benefits-art-therapy/
Showing Senate Spouses the Benefits of Art Therapy | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Healthcare Showing Senate Spouses the Benefits of Art Therapy April 17, 2018 2 minute read Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard By: Karen Pence Second Lady All News It was such a pleasure today to show the Senate Spouses the amazing work being done by Tracy’s Kids at Children’s National Health System in Washington, DC. Tracy’s Kids uses art therapy to help young cancer patients and their families cope with the emotional stress and trauma of cancer and its treatment. Their service is provided at no cost to the children and families they serve at seven locations throughout the United States. The spouses were able to experience an art therapy session first hand and catch my passion for this amazing therapy. We were able to hear success stories from the art therapists themselves during a roundtable with therapists, parents and hospital administrators. Cancer is difficult any time for anyone. But when it touches the life of a child, it can be very difficult for not only the child, but the entire family. The art therapists with Tracy’s Kids not only ease that burden, but they bring relief and even joy to what could otherwise be unbearable. Thank you to the Senate Spouses for taking the time to better understand art therapy. And thank you to Children’s National Health System and Tracy’s Kids for showing us a window into your world. Thank you for all you do! To learn more about Tracy’s Kids, visit tracyskids.org. The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search