https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/creative-arts-therapies-healing-hidden-wounds-war/
Creative Arts Therapies: Healing Hidden Wounds of War | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Healthcare Creative Arts Therapies: Healing Hidden Wounds of War March 7, 2018 1 minute read Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard By: Karen Pence Second Lady All News Today, just like every time we get to visit a National Intrepid Center of Excellence (NICoE), we were amazed at the success stories we got to hear. NICoE does such an amazing job treating the whole service member and their family. The doctors, social workers, physical therapists, art therapists, and music therapists all work together on every case. Today, we had the privilege of visiting Fort Belvoir in Virginia, one of several NICoE centers around the country. These centers truly understand the hidden wounds of war. They treat our soldiers who are experiencing inner trauma, including post-traumatic stress disorder. Today we participated in an art therapy session with an entire family. The art therapist knows them well and has a working relationship with the entire family. We talked color choices and what colors mean to each of us. I look forward to working with NICoE in the future. Learn more about their unique program here. Their dedication to military families is admirable. Thank you! The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search