https://www.whitehouse.gov/disclosures/#main-content
Disclosures | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Disclosures Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard In this section HomeThe Administration The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Mike Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy 2019 Financial Disclosures OGE Form 278 Executive Branch Personnel Public Financial Disclosure reports for White House officials are now available. Interested parties may request online those reports they would like to review. By filling out this form, you can access the reports of the officials you wish to review. Requested reports will be emailed as quickly as possible - please call the press office if you have any questions. First Name* Middle Name Last Name* Email* Occupation* If the application is for or on behalf of any other person or organization, give the other's information in the fields below On Behalf Of Name On Behalf Of Address Financial Disclosure report information Requested Individual First Name* Requested Individual Last Name* I am aware that pursuant to section 105(c) of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, as amended and 5 C.F.R. ยง 2634.603(f) of the implementing OGE regulations, it is unlawful for any person to obtain or use a report: (1) for any unlawful purpose; (2) for any commercial purpose, other than by news and communications media for dissemination to the general public; (3) for determining or establishing the credit rating of any individual; or (4) for use, directly or indirectly, in the solicitation of money for any political, charitable, or other purpose. The Attorney General may bring a civil action against any person who obtains or uses a report for any such prohibited purpose as set forth above. The court may assess against such a person a penalty in any amount not to exceed $19,246. Such remedy shall be in addition to any other remedy available under statutory or common law. I agree* *- required Thank you for your submission! OK Ethics Pledge Waivers List of Ethics Waivers Issued as of April 27, 2020 Staff Salaries 2017 Report 2018 Report 2019 Report Budget Submissions FY 2020 FY 2021 The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search