https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/staff/
Staff | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Council of Economic Advisers Staff Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard In this section HomeThe AdministrationExecutive OfficesCouncil of Economic Advisers Research Staff Jobs & Internships Council of Economic Advisers Acting Chairman Tomas Philipson Tomas J. Philipson is the Acting Chairman and Vice Chair of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, leading a group of economists who advise the President on a wide range of economic policies. On leave from the University of Chicago, Philipson was a member of the Council of Economic Advisers from 2017 to 2019, and previously served in the George W. Bush Administration, among other public sector positions. Philipson was a co-founder of Precision Health Economics, a healthcare consulting firm that was headquartered in Los Angeles with locations throughout the US, Canada, and Europe before it was sold in 2015. He received his master’s degree and Ph.D. in economics from the Wharton School and the University of Pennsylvania. He has been a visiting faculty member at Yale University and a visiting senior fellow at the World Bank. Philipson previously served as a fellow, board member, or associate with a number of other organizations other than the University of Chicago, including the National Bureau of Economic Research, the American Enterprise Institute, the Manhattan Institute, the Heartland Institute, the Milken Institute, the RAND Corporation, and the USC Schaeffer Center for Health Policy & Economics. Members and Chief Economists Tyler Goodspeed Dr. Tyler Beck Goodspeed is a Member on the Council of Economic Advisers where he previously served as Chief Economist for Macroeconomic Policy. Prior to joining CEA, he was on the Faculty of Economics at the University of Oxford and served as a Lecturer in Economics at King’s College London. He has published extensively on the economic history of money and banking, with particular attention to the role of access to credit in mitigating the effects of adverse aggregate shocks and to the effective use of extended and contingent liability in banking. Dr. Goodspeed received his B.A., M.A., and Ph.D. degrees from Harvard University, and M.Phil from the University of Cambridge. Donald Kenkel, Chief Economist, specializes in health economics and cost-benefit analysis. Most recently, he served as a Senior Economist at CEA. He holds a PhD in Economics from the University of Chicago. He is on leave from Cornell University, where he is the Joan and Irwin Jacobs Professor, Department of Policy Analysis and Management. Kevin Corinth, Chief Economist for Domestic Policy, specializes in poverty and housing issues. He received a B.A. from Boston College and a Ph.D. in economics from the University of Chicago. Anna Wong is a Chief International Economist on detail from Federal Reserve Board, where she worked in the Division of International of Finance. Her research is focused on international capital flows and trade. Prior to joining the Fed, she was Deputy Director of the Office of International Economic Analysis at US treasury, and before that, worked at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. She received her PhD in Economics from University of Chicago, and BA in economics and statistics from UC Berkeley. Jeremy Weber is a Chief Energy Economist and Senior Adviser to the Council focusing on energy and environmental issues. He is on leave from the University of Pittsburgh’s Graduate School of Public and International Affairs. He received his PhD from the University of Wisconsin-Madison and later worked at the World Bank and the U.S. Federal government before joining the University of Pittsburgh where he teaches courses on energy and environmental policy and directs the Shale Gas Governance Center. Steven Braun has been CEA’s Director of Macroeconomic Forecasting since 1996. Prior to his current position, Dr. Braun was a senior economist at the Council, a senior economist at the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve, and an economist at the OECD. He holds a PhD in economics from the University of Pennsylvania and a B.A. from Harvard University. Senior Economists Joseph Balagtas is a Senior Economist at CEA focusing on agriculture and trade. He is on leave from Purdue University, where he is an associate professor in the Department of Agricultural Economics. He holds a Ph.D. in agricultural economics from the University of California, Davis, an M.S. in agricultural economics from Iowa State University, and a B.A. in economics from Miami University. Andre Barbe is a Senior Economist at CEA where he focuses on trade. Andre received his BA in math and economics from Tulane and PhD from Rice. Robert Fisher is a Senior Economist and General Counsel at Council of Economic Advisers, where he is on detail from the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). His most recent position at the SEC is Managing Executive of the National Examination Program (NEP) . He began his career at the SEC as an Economic Fellow, later Financial Economist, in the SEC’s Office of Economic Analysis. Prior to that, among other professional experiences, Dr. Fisher’s career as an attorney included stints at three law firms: Skadden Arps et al., Sidley & Austin, and Fried Frank et al. His education includes a Ph.D. in Economics from Duke University and a J.D. from Harvard Law School. Lieutenant Colonel Jason Galui is a Senior Advisor on detail from the United States Military Academy at West Point where he served as an Assistant Professor of Economics and Strategy. Prior to West Point, Jason served on the National Security Council as Chief of Staff, South Asia Affairs; Deputy Executive Secretary; and Special Advisor to the National Security Advisor. He also served in the Pentagon as a Special Assistant to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff focused on the Indo-Pacific and Afghanistan-Pakistan regions as well as on matters related to keeping faith with military families. At CEA, Jason concentrates on issues at the intersection of economics and national security. Aaron Hedlund is a Senior Economist at the Council of Economic Advisers. He is on leave from the University of Missouri, where he is an assistant professor in the economics department. Aaron received his B.S. from Duke University and his Ph.D. from the University of Pennsylvania. LaVaughn Henry is a Senior Economist at CEA on detail from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation where he serves as a Policy Analyst in the Banking and Regulatory Policy Section. In this role he assists in the interpretation, analysis, proposal and drafting of policy guidelines, existing and proposed statutes and regulations, and studies, including the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, FDIC rules and regulations, the National Bank Act, and other relevant depository institution law. Dr. Henry earned both his doctorate and master’s degrees in economics from Harvard University, and a bachelor’s degree from Rockhurst University, located in his hometown of Kansas City, Missouri. Michael Hudak is a Senior Economist, currently on detail from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, where he does research related to their new survey the Occupational Requirements Survey. He received his Ph.D. in Economics from Iowa State University at Ames and has a B.S. from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Ian Lange is a Senior Economist and specializes in energy and natural resource issues. He is on leave from the Colorado School of Mines (CSM), where he serves as Director of the Mineral and Energy Economics Program in the Division of Economics and Business. Before joining the Colorado School of Mines, he worked as a Senior Lecturer (Associate Professor) and Director of the Masters of Energy Management in the Division of Economics at the University of Stirling, United Kingdom, and as a Post-Doctoral Fellow at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. He is currently a Faculty Fellow at the Payne Institute and Fellow of the CESifo Research Network. Ian holds a Ph.D. in Economics from the University of Washington as well as an M.A. and a B.A. in Economics from the University of Illinois at Chicago. Aparna Mathur is a Senior Economist at the Council of Economic Advisers. Prior to joining CEA, she was a resident scholar in economic policy studies at the American Enterprise Institute. She received her Ph.D. in economics from the University of Maryland, College Park in 2005, and is currently serving on the University of Maryland Economics Leadership Council. At AEI, she directed the AEI-Brookings Project on Paid Family and Medical Leave, for which she was recognized in the Politico 50 list for 2017. Her research has focused on income inequality and mobility, tax policy, labor markets and small businesses. She has published in several top scholarly journals, testified several times before Congress and published numerous articles in the popular press on issues of policy relevance. She has been an adjunct professor at Georgetown University’s McCourt School of Public Policy. Brett Matsumoto is a Senior Economist working on labor and health issues. He is on detail from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, where he does research related to the measurement of medical prices in the Consumer and Producer Price Indexes. He received his PhD in Economics from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and has a B.A. and a B.S. from the University of Delaware. Deborah Minehart is a Senior Economist on detail from the Antitrust Division of the United States Department of Justice where she works in the Economic Analysis Group. She specializes in industrial organization and antitrust. Prior to working for the Department of Justice, she was an Associate Professor of Economics at the University of Maryland and an Assistant Professor of Economics at Boston University. She received her Ph.D. from the University of California at Berkeley and her undergraduate degree from Harvard University. Stephen T. Parente, Senior Economist, is a professor in the Carlson School’s Department of Finance and holds the Minnesota Insurance Industry Chair of Health Finance. He specializes in health economics, information technology, and health insurance. His latest publication is The Economics of US Health Policy. He recently served as Senior Adviser for Health Economics to the Secretary of the US Department of Health and Human Services. Steve received his PhD from Johns Hopkins University and his B.A., M.P.H as well as an M.S. in Public Policy Analysis from the University of Rochester. In Washington, D.C., he has served as the Governing Chair of the Health Care Cost Institute, Vice Chair of Academy Health as well as adjunct Scholar at Johns Hopkins University, The Hoover Institution and American Enterprise Institute. Eric Sun is a senior economist at the CEA, and, as a DC-area native, comes back to the area after a two decade hiatus, during which he received an AB in molecular biology from Princeton University, a PhD in business economics from the Booth Graduate School of Business at the University of Chicago, and a MD from the Pritzker School of Medicine at the University of Chicago. He then went on to complete a residency in anesthesiology at Stanford University, after which he stayed on as an assistant professor in the Department of Anesthesiology, Perioperative, and Pain Medicine and (by courtesy) the Department of Health Research and Policy at Stanford University. His current research interests include opioid policy as well as the economics of physician behavior. The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search