https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/jobs-internships/
Jobs & Internships | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Council of Economic Advisers Jobs & Internships Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard In this section HomeThe AdministrationExecutive OfficesCouncil of Economic Advisers Research Staff Jobs & Internships Council of Economic Advisers The Council of Economic Advisers is recruiting Senior Economists, Staff Economists, Research Economists, and Research Assistants for the upcoming academic year and interns for the upcoming semester. CEA Senior Economist Opportunities Download PDF The Council of Economic Advisers (CEA) recruits Senior Economists. Senior Economists have a Ph.D. in economics and are typically on leave from positions at universities, government agencies, or research organizations. Excellent research skills and strong presentation skills are needed. Senior Economists participate actively in the policy process, represent the CEA in interagency meetings, and have primary responsibility for the economic analysis and reports prepared by the Council. In recent years, Senior Economists have been faculty members from institutions such as Berkeley, Carnegie Mellon, Cornell, Duke, Georgetown, Maryland, Michigan, MIT, and Yale, and economists from the Federal Reserve Board, USDA, SEC, and the DOJ. It has been a productive and collegial team, and it is supported by an exceptionally strong staff of on-leave PhD students and recent college graduates. The CEA needs specialists in virtually every field of economics. Most Senior Economists begin work at the Council in the summer and stay for a full academic year. CEA staff members must be U.S. citizens and may not also be citizens of another country. If you are interested in applying for these positions, please send your C.V. by email to: Steven Braun, Director of Macroeconomic Forecasting President’s Council of Economic Advisers Email: recruiting@cea.eop.gov Application deadline: Applications are accepted on a rolling basis. The United States Government does not discriminate in employment on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, political affiliation, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital status, disability and genetic information, age, membership in an employee organization, or other non-merit factor. CEA Staff Economist Opportunities Download PDF The Council of Economic Advisers (CEA) is currently recruiting Staff Economists. The CEA provides the President with objective economic analysis and advice on the development and implementation of a wide range of domestic and international economic policy issues. Staff Economists are typically Ph.D. students on leave from top programs, and are integral members of the CEA team. They conduct advanced statistical analysis, contribute to reports distributed throughout the Administration and to Congress, and play a key role in producing the President’s daily economic briefing. Staff Economists must be U.S. citizens and must be willing to be investigated for a security clearance. Most Staff Economists work at the Council for a full 12-month period. If you are interested in applying for this position, please email your resume, transcript, a single-authored writing sample. We also request two letters of recommendation (at least one must be from an economist and should be submitted directly from the recommender) to: Steven Braun, Director of Macroeconomic Forecasting President’s Council of Economic Advisers Email: recruiting@cea.eop.gov Application Deadline: Applications are accepted on a rolling basis. The United States Government does not discriminate in employment on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, political affiliation, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital status, disability and genetic information, age, membership in an employee organization, or other non-merit factor. CEA Research Economist Opportunities Download PDF The Council of Economic Advisers (CEA) is currently recruiting Research Economists. The CEA provides the President with objective economic analysis and advice on the development and implementation of a wide range of domestic and international economic policy issues. In addition to being college graduates with extensive coursework in economics and statistics and a keen interest in public policy, Research Economists typically have 1-2 years of work experience and/or a Master’s degree in a related field. They support the research and analysis mission of the CEA by conducting statistical analysis and data collection, creating presentations, and writing literature reviews to ensure that recent academic research remains part of the policy process. Research Economists contribute to reports distributed throughout the Administration and to Congress and play a key role in producing the President’s Economic Briefings. They must be detail-oriented as they play a key role in ensuring the accuracy of CEA reports, Presidential speeches, and other documents. Research Economists must be U.S. citizens and must be willing to be investigated for a security clearance. Most Research Economists begin work at the Council in the summer and stay for one to two years. If you are interested in applying for this position, please email your resume, transcript, a single-authored writing sample. We also request two letters of recommendation (at least one must be from an economist and should be submitted directly from the recommender) to: Steven Braun, Director of Macroeconomic Forecasting President’s Council of Economic Advisers Email: recruiting@cea.eop.gov Application deadline: Applications are accepted on a rolling basis. The United States Government does not discriminate in employment on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, political affiliation, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital status, disability and genetic information, age, membership in an employee organization, or other non-merit factor. CEA Research Assistant Opportunities Download PDF The Council of Economic Advisers (CEA) is currently recruiting Research Assistants. The CEA provides the President with objective economic analysis and advice on the development and implementation of a wide range of domestic and international economic policy issues. Research Assistants are typically college graduates with extensive coursework in economics and statistics who have a keen interest in public policy. They support the research and analysis mission of the CEA by conducting statistical analysis and data collection, creating presentations, and writing literature reviews to ensure that recent academic research remains part of the policy process. Research Assistants must be detail-oriented as they play a key role in ensuring the accuracy of CEA reports, Presidential speeches, and other documents. Research Assistants must be U.S. citizens and must be willing to be investigated for a security clearance. Most Research Assistants begin work at the Council in the summer and stay for one to two years. If you are interested in applying for this position, please email your resume, transcript, a single-authored writing sample. We also request two letters of recommendation (at least one must be from an economist and should be submitted directly from the recommender) to: Steven Braun, Director of Macroeconomic Forecasting President’s Council of Economic Advisers Email: recruiting@cea.eop.gov Application deadline: Applications are accepted on a rolling basis. The United States Government does not discriminate in employment on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, political affiliation, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital status, disability and genetic information, age, membership in an employee organization, or other non-merit factor. CEA Internship Opportunities Download PDF The White House Council of Economic Advisers (CEA) is located in Washington, D.C. and offers full- and part-time internships during the spring and fall, and full-time internships during the summer. Interns at CEA are responsible for assisting staff in researching a wide range of macroeconomic, microeconomic, and international issues, analyzing data, and contributing towards the policy-making process. Administrative duties to support the work of the Council are also involved. CEA interns work on exciting, challenging projects with real world implications. They earn valuable experience applying their quantitative and qualitative research skills on a daily basis and learn new ways to approach questions from CEA economists who serve as their mentors. The CEA internship program is designed to offer our interns a breadth of valuable professional development and networking experiences, including brownbag lunches with prominent economists and opportunities to connect with other agencies. CEA provides the President with objective economic analysis and advice on the development and implementation of a wide range of domestic and international economic policy issues. The Council is comprised of a Chair and two Members; the Chair is Senate-confirmed, and all three are Presidential Appointees. The staff of the Council consists of Senior and Junior Economists, Research Assistants, and a statistical and administrative staff. Requirements All applicants must be U.S. citizens and at least 18 years of age by the internship program start date. Additionally, applicants must meet the following criteria to be eligible: Are currently enrolled in an undergraduate or graduate degree program at a college, community college, or university (two-or-four-year institution) or have graduated from an undergraduate or graduate degree program in the past two years; Have demonstrated interest in economics, statistics, mathematics, public policy, or finance with a strong academic record and passion for public service; Have excellent writing and analytical skills; Have experience using Microsoft Office and conducting research and analysis; Priority will be given to interns with the ability to work full-time. Preferred candidates will also have experience with Stata (or a similar statistical software). Application details If you are interested in applying, please send your resume, transcript, and cover letter via email to: The Intern Program Coordinators Council of Economic Advisers Email: CEAInternships@cea.eop.gov Application Deadlines: Applications are accepted on a rolling basis with a cut-off date approximately three weeks in advance of the start date. Exact start and end dates are below. All internship positions at the Council of Economic Advisers are unpaid. The United States Government does not discriminate in employment on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, political affiliation, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital status, disability and genetic information, age, membership in an employee organization, or other non-merit factor. Internship Dates: Summer 2020: May 19 – August 14 (application cut-off date: March 30) The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search