https://www.whitehouse.gov/ceq/#
Council on Environmental Quality | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Council on Environmental Quality The National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) established the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) in 1970 within the Executive Office of the President. CEQ oversees Federal agency NEPA implementation and develops and recommends national policies to the President that promote the improvement of environmental quality and meet the Nation’s goals. In addition, CEQ is assigned various duties and responsibilities under other statutes, Executive Orders, and Presidential Memoranda, including with regard to Federal ocean policy, Federal sustainability, and timely environmental review and permitting processes for infrastructure development, and other matters. Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard In this section HomeThe AdministrationExecutive OfficesCouncil on Environmental Quality Initiatives Ocean Policy Infrastructure Sustainability NEPA Modernization FOIA Resources Contact whceq Mary B. Neumayr Chairman of CEQ whceq Mary B. Neumayr is the current Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ). She was unanimously confirmed by the United States Senate on January 2, 2019, and sworn in as Chairman on January 10, 2019. Prior to her appointment, Ms. Neumayr had been serving as CEQ’s Chief of Staff since March 2017. Before joining […] Learn more CEQ’s Proposal to Update National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) Regulations: CEQ oversees Federal agency implementation of NEPA, principally through regulations it has issued interpreting NEPA’s procedural requirements. CEQ has published a proposed rule to comprehensively update and modernize its regulations for implementing NEPA for the first time in over 40 years. For more information on CEQ, the proposed update to its regulations, and implementation of NEPA, visit CEQ’s NEPA Modernization page or visit NEPA.gov. One Federal Decision Policy & Infrastructure: Under Executive Order 13807, President Trump directed Federal agencies to work in a coordinated way to improve the Federal environmental review and permitting process for major infrastructure projects through a One Federal Decision policy. Under the policy, Federal agencies are directed to complete environmental reviews for such projects within two years through improved coordination. For more information on CEQ’s work on infrastructure permitting, visit CEQ’s Infrastructure page. Federal Ocean Policy: CEQ supports Federal interagency coordination on ocean-related matters through the Ocean Policy Committee, co-chaired by CEQ and the Office of Science and Technology Policy. For more information on the Ocean Policy Committee’s work and Federal ocean policy, visit CEQ’s Ocean Policy page. Federal Sustainability: CEQ also oversees the Office of Federal Sustainability (OFS) which assists Federal agencies in advancing energy and environmental sustainability and meeting statutory requirements. For more information on OFS, visit CEQ’s Federal Sustainability page or visit Sustainability.gov. Remarks Remarks by President Trump on Proposed National Environmental Policy Act Regulations Energy & Environment Jan 9, 2020 Fact Sheets President Donald J. Trump Is Committed to Modernizing Environmental Policies and Paving the Way for Vital Infrastructure Improvements Energy & Environment Jan 9, 2020 Statements & Releases Presidential Message on the 50th Anniversary of the National Environmental Policy Act Energy & Environment Jan 1, 2020 Fact Sheets President Donald J. Trump Is Accelerating Ocean Exploration Nov 19, 2019 Energy & Environment Commemorating Mallows Bay-Potomac River National Marine Sanctuary By: Mary B. Neumayr and Neil Jacobs, Ph.D. Nov 9, 2019 The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search