https://www.whitehouse.gov/people/mary-b-neumayr/
Mary B. Neumayr, CEQ Chairman | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Mary B. Neumayr Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality @whceq Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard Download Image Mary B. Neumayr is the current Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ). She was unanimously confirmed by the United States Senate on January 2, 2019, and sworn in as Chairman on January 10, 2019. Prior to her appointment, Ms. Neumayr had been serving as CEQ’s Chief of Staff since March 2017. Before joining CEQ, Ms. Neumayr served in a variety of positions with the Committee on Energy and Commerce in the United States House of Representatives, including as Deputy Chief Counsel, Energy and Environment (2017); Senior Energy Counsel (2011-2017); and Counsel (2009-2010). Ms. Neumayr also served as Deputy General Counsel for Environment and Nuclear Programs at the Department of Energy (2006-2009) and as Counsel to the Assistant Attorney General for the Environment and Natural Resources Division at the Department of Justice (2003-2006). Prior to her Government service, Ms. Neumayr was in private legal practice from 1989 through 2003 in New York and San Francisco. She received her B.A. from Thomas Aquinas College and J.D. from the University of California, Hastings College of the Law. Energy & Environment Commemorating Mallows Bay-Potomac River National Marine Sanctuary By: Mary B. Neumayr and Neil Jacobs, Ph.D. Nov 9, 2019 The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search