https://www.sustainability.gov/
Office of Federal Sustainability
Menu Home Policy Performance Data Resources & Guidance Executive Order on Efficient Federal Operations Read More See Implementing Instructions View Performance Data Read More Browse Resources and Guidance Read More Welcome The Office of Federal Sustainability (OFS) coordinates policy to promote energy and environmental sustainability across Federal Government operations, which encompass more than 350,000 buildings, 600,000 vehicles, and $500 billion in purchased goods and services annually. Established in 1993, OFS is housed within the White House Council on Environmental Quality and stewards the Interagency Steering Committee on Federal Sustainability. The Office works across Federal agencies, departments, and other White House components to ensure effective implementation and achievement of statutory requirements and Administration goals related to Federal energy and environmental performance. It also coordinates implementation of programs and initiatives to improve facility and vehicle fleet efficiency, promote adoption of efficient technologies, and modernize Federal facilities and operations through the sound use of taxpayer dollars. President Trump signed Executive Order 13834 titled "Efficient Federal Operations" on May 17, 2018. Read the Executive Order and Fact Sheet. Federal Sustainability in Action See energy and water consumption data and key highlights below. Federal Government-Wide Progress on Sustainability Goals View and explore interactive graphs on Federal government-wide and agency-specific progress on energy, water, renewable electricity, investments, fleets, and sustainable buildings. The Federal Government Manages 350,000 buildings and 600,000 vehicles Is the largest energy consumer in the nation Reduced building energy use per square foot by 25.5% since 2003 Reduced potable water use per square foot by 27.2% since 2007 Uses renewable energy to power 10.2% of its facility electric energy needs Reduced fleet petroleum use by 4.3% since 2017 Learn more + 730 Jackson Place N.W. Washington, D.C. 20506 Government Sites The White House About This Site Security & Privacy Contact Us CEQ acknowledges and appreciates the support and service provided by the U.S. Department of Energy's Federal Energy Management Program supporting this website. Scroll