https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/president-donald-j-trump-accelerating-ocean-exploration/
President Donald J. Trump Is Accelerating Ocean Exploration
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Fact Sheets President Donald J. Trump Is Accelerating Ocean Exploration Issued on: November 19, 2019 Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard Council on Environmental Quality All News ADVANCING OUR UNDERSTANDING OF OUR OCEANS AND COASTLINES: President Donald J. Trump is directing Federal agencies to develop a national strategy to map the U.S. Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) and a strategy to map the Alaskan coastline. The U.S. EEZ is among the largest in the world and is larger than the combined land area of all fifty states. Only about 40 percent of the U.S. EEZ has been mapped and significantly less of the area has natural resources and ocean systems that have been characterized, including identification and evaluation, by executive departments and agencies. Alaska and the Alaskan Arctic lack the comprehensive shoreline and nearshore maps available to much of the Nation. President Trump is directing the co-chairs of the Ocean Policy Committee (OPC), established by Executive Order 13840, to coordinate the development of a plan for mapping, exploring, and characterizing the U.S. EEZ. Furthering our understanding of the resources in the U.S. EEZ is important to conservation, management, and balanced use of our Nation’s oceans. The President is directing the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to coordinate with the State of Alaska and the Alaska Mapping Executive Committee to develop a strategy to map the Alaska coastline. Accurate mapping will support economic growth, resource management, and the safety and security of coastal residents. STREAMLINING PERMITTING: The President is promoting efficient permitting for ocean exploration, mapping, and research activities. These activities can involve multiple environmental reviews, consultations, and permits. President Trump is directing the OPC to recommend actions to increase the efficiency of the permitting process for ocean exploration activities across Federal agencies. SUPPORTING AMERICA’S FUTURE PROSPERITY, HEALTH, AND NATIONAL SECURITY: President Trump’s actions will benefit the U.S. economy, national security, and environment. America’s oceans and coastlines contribute significantly to the national economy. NOAA estimates that the ocean economy produces more than $300 billion in goods and services. NOAA has estimated that there are approximately 154,000 ocean-dependent businesses, which in 2016 employed more than 3 million people and paid $129 billion in wages. Additional mapping and research will improve our Nation’s understanding of the vast resources in our oceans, including new sources of critical minerals, biopharmaceuticals, and energy, and areas of significant ecological and conservation value. The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search