https://www.whitehouse.gov/nsc/?utm_source=link&utm_medium=header
National Security Council | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search National Security Council The National Security Council (NSC) is the President's principal forum for considering national security and foreign policy matters with his senior national security advisors and cabinet officials. Since its inception under President Truman, the Council's function has been to advise and assist the President on national security and foreign policies. The Council also serves as the President's principal arm for coordinating these policies among various government agencies. Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard In this section HomeThe AdministrationExecutive OfficesNational Security Council The NSC is chaired by the President. Its regular attendees (both statutory and non-statutory) are the Vice President, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Defense, and the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs. The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff is the statutory military advisor to the Council, and the Director of National Intelligence is the intelligence advisor. The Chief of Staff to the President, Counsel to the President, and the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy are invited to attend any NSC meeting. The Attorney General and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget are invited to attend meetings pertaining to their responsibilities. The heads of other executive departments and agencies, as well as other senior officials, are invited to attend meetings of the NSC when appropriate. The National Security Council was established by the National Security Act of 1947 (PL 235 – 61 Stat. 496; U.S.C. 402), amended by the National Security Act Amendments of 1949 (63 Stat. 579; 50 U.S.C. 401 et seq.). Later in 1949, as part of the Reorganization Plan, the Council was placed in the Executive Office of the President. Remarks Remarks by National Security Advisor Ambassador Robert O’Brien at 2019 Atlantic Future Forum National Security & Defense Nov 25, 2019 Remarks Remarks by National Security Advisor Ambassador Robert O’Brien at the ZOA’s 2019 Justice Louis D. Brandeis Award Dinner Foreign Policy Nov 25, 2019 Infrastructure & Technology Raising the Bar to Protect Federal Government and Private-Sector Data Jul 25, 2019 National Security & Defense Winning the War Against Terrorist Messaging By: Michael Burnett Mar 1, 2019 Foreign Policy A Look at the U.S. Strategy for Iran By: Victoria Coates Feb 13, 2019 Statements & Releases Statement from National Security Advisor Ambassador John Bolton on Venezuela Foreign Policy Jan 11, 2019 Statements & Releases White House National Security Advisor Announces Senior Staff Appointment Jan 11, 2019 Remarks Remarks by National Security Advisor Ambassador John R. Bolton on the The Trump Administration’s New Africa Strategy Foreign Policy Dec 13, 2018 Remarks Remarks by National Security Advisor Ambassador John Bolton to the Zionist Organization of America Foreign Policy Nov 5, 2018 Remarks Remarks by National Security Advisor Ambassador John R. Bolton on the Administration’s Policies in Latin America Foreign Policy Nov 2, 2018 The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search