https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/white-house-national-security-advisor-announces-senior-staff-appointment-2/
White House National Security Advisor Announces Senior Staff Appointment | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Statements & Releases White House National Security Advisor Announces Senior Staff Appointment Issued on: January 11, 2019 Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard National Security Council All News President Donald J. Trump’s National Security Advisor, Ambassador John Bolton, announced today that President Trump has appointed Dr. Charles M. Kupperman as Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor. Dr. Kupperman brings to the role more than four decades of national security policy and program experience. He served in the Reagan Administration, holding positions in the Executive Office of the President, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and the President’s General Advisory Committee on Arms Control and Disarmament. He also worked as a Defense and Foreign Policy Advisor to the Ronald Reagan Presidential campaign. “Charlie Kupperman has been an advisor to me for more than thirty years, including during my tenure as National Security Advisor to President Trump,” said Ambassador John Bolton. “Charlie’s extensive expertise in defense, arms control and aerospace will help further President Trump’s national security agenda.” Dr. Kupperman previously held positions as Vice President for Business Development, Missile Defense Systems for Boeing, and Vice President of Washington Space Operations for Lockheed Martin Corporation. He received a Ph.D. in Strategic Studies from the University of Southern California, a M.A. in International Relations from the University of British Columbia and a B.A. in Political Science from Purdue University. The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search