https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/information-regulatory-affairs/
Information and Regulatory Affairs | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Office of Management and Budget Information and Regulatory Affairs Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard In this section HomeThe AdministrationExecutive OfficesOffice of Management and Budget President's Budget Information and Guidance Information and Regulatory Affairs U.S. Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator Legislative Management eGov (OFCIO) OFFM OFPP OPPM PMA GovReform Office of Management and Budget OIRA Pages Regulatory Matters Federal Collection of Information Information Policy Privacy Statistical Programs & Standards Reports to Congress International Regulatory Cooperation The Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA) is a statutory part of the Office of Management and Budget within the Executive Office of the President. OIRA is the United States Government’s central authority for the review of Executive Branch regulations, approval of Government information collections, establishment of Government statistical practices, and coordination of Federal privacy policy. The office is comprised of six subject matter branches and is led by the OIRA Administrator, who is appointed by the President and confirmed by the United States Senate. In addition to reviewing drafts of proposed and final regulations under a variety of statutory and Executive Order authorities, OIRA also coordinates retrospective review of regulation under Executive Order 13610, reviews and approves Government collections of information from the public under the Paperwork Reduction Act, and oversees the implementation of Government-wide policies in the areas of information policy, privacy, and statistical policy. OIRA also coordinates agency implementation of the Information Quality Act, including the peer review practices of agencies, and participates in implementation of the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement and Fairness Act (SBREFA). Finally, OIRA coordinates the Administration’s efforts to improve regulatory cooperation with our key trading partners, including Canada and Mexico. Rules under review. Information about the Administration’s regulatory actions can be found on www.reginfo.gov, a website that makes information about OIRA’s review of regulations under Executive Order 12866 available to the public and features information about public meetings that OIRA conducts. It also contains information concerning implementation of Executive Order 13771 and Executive Order 13777. Reginfo.gov includes a Regulatory Review Dashboard that graphically presents information about rules under OIRA review through an easy-to-use interactive display. The Dashboard allows the public to sort rules by agency, length of review, stage of rulemaking, economic significance, and international impacts. The website also presents an Information Collection Request (ICR) Dashboard, which provides the public with direct access to agency information collection requests sent to OIRA for review under the Paperwork Reduction Act. Participate in rulemaking. Regulations.gov is the source for information on the development of Federal regulations and other related documents issued by the U.S. Government. Through this site, the public can find, read, and comment on proposed regulations and related documents published by the Federal Government, and learn more about regulatory issues. OIRA Governing Authorities United States Constitution, Art. II 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35 – Paperwork Reduction Act 5 U.S.C. § 552a – Privacy Act 5 U.S.C. § Chapter 8 – Congressional Review Act 44 U.S.C § 3501 – Confidential Information Protection and Statistical Efficiency Act 44 U.S.C § 3516 – Information Quality Act 5 U.S.C. § 601 – Regulatory Flexibility Act Executive Order 13783 – Promoting Energy Independence and Economic Growth Executive Order 13777 – Enforcing the Regulatory Reform Agenda Executive Order 13771 – Reducing Regulation and Controlling Regulatory Costs Executive Order 13610 – Identifying and Reducing Regulatory Burdens Executive Order 13609 – Promoting International Regulatory Cooperation Executive Order 13579 – Regulation and Independent Regulatory Agencies Executive Order 13563 – Improving Regulation and Regulatory Review Executive Order 12866 – Improving the Planning and the Coordination of Federal Regulation About OIRA History The Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA, pronounced “oh-eye-ruh”) is a Federal office that Congress established in the 1980 Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. Chapter 35). OIRA is part of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), which is an agency within the Executive Office of the President. In addition to reviewing government collections of information from the public under the Paperwork Reduction Act, OIRA reviews draft proposed and final regulations under Executive Order 12866 and develops and oversees the implementation of government-wide policies in the areas of information policy, privacy, and statistical policy. OIRA also oversees agency implementation of the Information Quality Act (44 U.S.C § 3516), including the peer review practices of agencies. Professional Staff OIRA has approximately 45 full-time career civil servants who work with agency officials on specific issues and regulations. All OIRA career staff possess graduate level degrees and have historically come from backgrounds in economics, law, policy analysis, statistics, and information technology. With the growth of science-based regulation and information-quality issues, several staff members also have expertise in public health, toxicology, epidemiology, engineering, and other technical fields. Regulatory Review and How to Participate in the Rulemaking Process To learn more about the rulemaking process, OIRA’s review process, and how you can participate, please see our FAQ on reginfo.gov. The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search