https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/management/pma/
The President's Management Agenda | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Office of Management and Budget The President’s Management Agenda Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard In this section HomeThe AdministrationExecutive OfficesOffice of Management and Budget President's Budget Information and Guidance Information and Regulatory Affairs U.S. Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator Legislative Management eGov (OFCIO) OFFM OFPP OPPM PMA GovReform Office of Management and Budget The President’s Management Agenda lays the foundation needed to address the critical challenges where Government as a whole still operates in the past. This is one of many steps to building a stronger America and providing 21st century services Americans can expect today and tomorrow. View the PMA (PDF) Play 01:38 The President's Management Agenda The President's Management Agenda Share Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy to your clipboard Most Americans may not think about the Federal Government every day—but when they need Government services, they expect them to work. The business of the Federal Government is to serve the American people. But public trust in Government is declining to near-historic lows because it’s not meeting the American people’s expectations. Government must transform its outdated approaches, technology, and skillsets so that the workforce of today can meet the needs and expectations of the public tomorrow. How do we get there? Rather than pursue short-term fixes that quickly become outdated, this Administration is investing in deep-seated transformation through the President’s Management Agenda. This agenda lays out a long-term vision for modernizing the Federal Government in key areas that will improve the ability of agencies to work on behalf of the American people to: Deliver mission outcomes, Provide excellent service, and Effectively steward taxpayer dollars. To move from vision to action, the Administration will focus on modernizing three key drivers of transformation: Modern information technology (IT) will function as the backbone of how Government serves the public in ways that meet their expectations and keep sensitive data and systems secure. Data, accountability, and transparency will provide the tools to deliver visibly better results to the public and hold agencies accountable to taxpayers. A modern workforce that builds on the Administration’s proposed civil service reforms to empower senior leaders and front-line managers to align staff skills with evolving mission needs. In order to advance change across the Federal enterprise, the President’s Management Agenda is establishing Cross-Agency Priority—or CAP—goals for each of the three key areas. These CAP Goal will be led by an interagency team of senior Federal leaders and staff. Because accountability is important part of the PMA, CAP goal results will be tracked publicly each quarter online at www.performance.gov/PMA . The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search