https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/management/government-reform/
Government Reform | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Office of Management and Budget Government Reform Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard In this section HomeThe AdministrationExecutive OfficesOffice of Management and Budget President's Budget Information and Guidance Information and Regulatory Affairs U.S. Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator Legislative Management eGov (OFCIO) OFFM OFPP OPPM PMA GovReform Office of Management and Budget Reshaping American Government in the 21st Century View the Gov Reform Plan (PDF) In today’s digital age, the Federal Government is not suited to meet the needs of its customer, the American people. Outdated technology, organizational constructs, and antiquated processes keep citizens and small businesses tied up in bureaucracy, leaving the American people and Federal workforce frustrated. Having to work through multiple Federal agencies to conduct business or solve simple problems is not an efficient or effective use of taxpayer resources. For example, a poultry company in Georgia has to fill out separate paperwork because chickens and eggs are regulated by different Federal agencies. And because of the toppings, a frozen cheese pizza and a pepperoni pizza are regulated by different agencies. There needs to be a better way. With today’s technology, if we can order a car from our smartphone, we should be able to easily communicate with a Federal worker when needed. President Trump understands this frustration and the need to have a modern and efficient Federal Government that better serves the American people. This is why the President once again opted to put the American people first and demanded change. An Executive Order (EO) issued last March directed the proposal of a comprehensive plan to reform the Federal Government to be more efficient, effective and accountable. Paired with the President’s Management Agenda, this EO and the Administration’s plan build on a history of bipartisan Government reform initiatives that will hold our Government accountable and put you, the American taxpayer, first. The Administration’s plan serves as a cornerstone for productive, bipartisan dialogue on realigning the Federal Government to more effectively operate in the 21st century. The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search