https://www.whitehouse.gov/ondcp/the-administrations-approach/the-drug-crisis/
The Drug Crisis | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Office of National Drug Control Policy The Drug Crisis Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard In this section HomeThe AdministrationExecutive OfficesOffice of National Drug Control Policy The Administration’s Approach The Drug Crisis The Administration’s Strategy President’s Commission on Opioids The HIDTA Program Overview Designation Process Program Impacts The DFC Program Overview Application Process Program Impacts Enhancement Grants Other Grant Programs Anti-Doping and Clean Sport Drug Courts Training Model Acts About Authorizations Budget, Performance, and Data Advisories FOIA and Legal Contact Us Office of National Drug Control Policy America is currently in the midst of an unprecedented drug crisis. In 2017, over 70,000 Americans died from an overdose, an increase of 45% over the previous year. The overdose epidemic has affected Americans of all races, age groups, and socioeconomic statuses, and it has devastated families in urban and rural areas alike. Overdoses now kill more Americans than suicides, motor vehicle accidents, firearms, and homicides, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) points to overdoses as a key contributor to the drop in Americans’ life expectancy. Download full size image The rise of overdose deaths in the United States has been largely driven by an increase in opioid-related deaths. Opioids—including prescription painkillers, heroin, and fentanyl—were responsible for 68% of overdoses in 2017. An estimated 2 million Americans are currently battling opioid addiction, and in 2017, the Council of Economic Advisors estimated that the Opioid Crisis was costing the United States over half a trillion dollars in lost productivity, premature deaths, and increased healthcare and criminal justice costs. More data about the drug crisis—including assessments of current drug use and drug-induced morbidity and mortality—can be found in ONDCP’s Data Supplement. After his inauguration, President Donald J. Trump established the President’s Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis to provide its recommendations on how the Federal government should respond to this crisis. Shortly thereafter, he declared the Opioid Crisis a public health emergency. Since then, the government has spent or allocated over $12.9 Billion to address opioid misuse. The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search