https://www.whitehouse.gov/ondcp/the-administrations-approach/presidents-commission-opioids/
President's Commission on Opioids | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Office of National Drug Control Policy President’s Commission on Opioids Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard In this section HomeThe AdministrationExecutive OfficesOffice of National Drug Control Policy The Administration’s Approach The Drug Crisis The Administration’s Strategy President’s Commission on Opioids The HIDTA Program Overview Designation Process Program Impacts The DFC Program Overview Application Process Program Impacts Enhancement Grants Other Grant Programs Anti-Doping and Clean Sport Drug Courts Training Model Acts About Authorizations Budget, Performance, and Data Advisories FOIA and Legal Contact Us Office of National Drug Control Policy On March 29, 2017, President Donald J. Trump signed an Executive Order establishing the President’s Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis. As detailed in its charter, the Commission served as an advisory board and made recommendations regarding policies and practices for combating the addiction—and, specifically, the opioid—crisis in this country. The Commission was chaired by Governor Chris Christie and was also comprised of Governor Charlie Baker, Governor Roy Cooper, Congressman Patrick J. Kennedy, Dr. Bertha Madras, and Florida Attorney General Pamela Bondi. The Commission disbanded in late 2017 after completing its final report to the President. This report envisioned a comprehensive solution to the addiction crisis that leveraged expertise and resources from across the Federal government. One year later, the government has made substantial progress in implementing the Commission’s recommendations. MEETINGS The Commission met five times before the release of its final report. Documents and details of the five meetings are posted below. June 16, 2017 Federal Register notice Live stream Meeting agenda and minutes Briefing material from the Addiction Policy Forum Written statements from speakers: Hugh Guill, Young People in Recovery Jessica Nickel, Addiction Policy Forum Mitchell Rosenthall, National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence Marcia Lee Taylor, Partnership for Drug-Free Kids General Arthur Dean, Community Anti-Drug Coalitions of America Gary Mendell, Shatterproof July 31, 2017 Federal Register notice Draft interim report Meeting agenda and minutes September 27, 2017 Federal Register notice Live stream Meeting agenda and minutes October 20, 2017 Federal Register notice Live stream Meeting agenda and minutes November 1, 2017 Federal Register notice Live stream Meeting agenda and minutes As the Commission received administrative and financial support from ONDCP, any member of the public who wishes to submit written comments regarding the implementation of its recommendations can do so at oipl@ondcp.eop.gov. The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search