https://www.whitehouse.gov/ondcp/the-hidta-program/program-impacts/
Program Impacts | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Office of National Drug Control Policy Program Impacts Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard In this section HomeThe AdministrationExecutive OfficesOffice of National Drug Control Policy The Administration’s Approach The Drug Crisis The Administration’s Strategy President’s Commission on Opioids The HIDTA Program Overview Designation Process Program Impacts The DFC Program Overview Application Process Program Impacts Enhancement Grants Other Grant Programs Anti-Doping and Clean Sport Drug Courts Training Model Acts About Authorizations Budget, Performance, and Data Advisories FOIA and Legal Contact Us Office of National Drug Control Policy Since its inception in 1988, the HIDTA program has helped law enforcement officials implement integrated operations against drug trafficking organizations and, with ONDCP’s leadership, has provided the American people with a cost-effective solution to the drug crisis. In 2018, the HIDTAs seized an estimated $16.5 billion in illicit drugs and cash—representing a Return on Investment of $64 for every $1 budgeted for the HIDTA program. Removing drugs from our streets. By interdicting and seizing drugs off our shores and within our borders, HIDTAs remove the supply of illicit substances, making it harder for drug trafficking organizations (DTOs) to sell their products. In 2018, the HIDTA program seized and disposed of over 1,907 tons of marijuana, 198 tons of cocaine products, 84 tons of meth, 7 tons of heroin, and 2 tons of fentanyl. Dismantling drug trafficking organizations. By targeting drug trafficking organizations, the HIDTAs focus on the entities responsible for the majority of the production, movement, and sales of illicit drugs. Last year, the HIDTAs disrupted and dismantled over 2,900 DTOs, 58% of which were part of international or multi-state operations. Promoting best practices and innovations. Because of the HIDTA program’s national footprint, law enforcement officials (LEOs) across the country can share their best practices and information with each other and, because of ONDCP’s neutrality, the HIDTAs can share on-the-ground intelligence with Federal agencies for better anti-drug policy. Preventing substance abuse through comprehensive anti-drug programming. By establishing alliances with public health, healthcare, education, recreation, and other relevant sectors, the HIDTAs help create comprehensive community-based prevention efforts. Enhancing officers’ safety and coordination. The systems and procedures ONDCP developed for its HIDTA helped LEOs share more than 1.2 million pieces of evidence to unearth connections between cases and perform over 310,000 event deconflictions, actions that can alert LEOs when their tactical operations are occurring in the same general location and timeframe as other agencies. This has reduced unnecessary officer injuries and helped increase arrest and conviction rates. The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search