https://www.whitehouse.gov/ondcp/the-dfc-program/application-process/
Application Process | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Office of National Drug Control Policy Application Process Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard In this section HomeThe AdministrationExecutive OfficesOffice of National Drug Control Policy The Administration’s Approach The Drug Crisis The Administration’s Strategy President’s Commission on Opioids The HIDTA Program Overview Designation Process Program Impacts The DFC Program Overview Application Process Program Impacts Enhancement Grants Other Grant Programs Anti-Doping and Clean Sport Drug Courts Training Model Acts About Authorizations Budget, Performance, and Data Advisories FOIA and Legal Contact Us Office of National Drug Control Policy The Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic is rapidly evolving, as is its impact on communities across the United States. ONDCP and CDC understand that this poses unique challenges to everyone in our country and may impact your ability to apply to the Drug-Free Communities grant program. Please go to www.grants.gov for updated information on deadline extensions for the new applicants and competing continuation applicants. The FY 2020 DFC Support Program’s Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) has been released. For this fiscal year, ONDCP anticipates awarding nearly $25 million to 200 new community coalitions. Coalitions interested in applying can find more information here: New Coalitions (Year 1 Applicants) Competing Continuations (Year 6 Applicants) The DFC Program operates on a similar timeline each year. Community coalitions interested in applying to the DFC Program are encouraged to regularly check the ONDCP webpage for the latest programmatic updates. Grants awarded through the DFC Support Program are intended to support and fund community-based youth substance use prevention coalitions in the United States. Coalitions cannot fund organizations or activities outside of the United States. For the purposes of the DFC Support Program, a coalition is defined as a community-based formal arrangement for cooperation and collaboration among groups or sectors of a community in which each group retains its identity, but all agree to work together toward a common goal of building a safe, healthy, and drug-free community. DFC grant award recipients are expected to conduct the day-to-day operations of the grant program and are not permitted to serve as a conduit for DFC funds passing through them or to another agency. Requirements for applying coalitions The eligibility criteria for coalitions applying for DFC funding; The DFC’s training videos; and The program’s terms, conditions, and reporting requirements. Community coalitions interested in DFC funding can email DFC@ondcp.eop.gov for more information. The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search