https://www.whitehouse.gov/ondcp/the-dfc-program/program-impacts/
Program Impacts | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Office of National Drug Control Policy Program Impacts Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard In this section HomeThe AdministrationExecutive OfficesOffice of National Drug Control Policy The Administration’s Approach The Drug Crisis The Administration’s Strategy President’s Commission on Opioids The HIDTA Program Overview Designation Process Program Impacts The DFC Program Overview Application Process Program Impacts Enhancement Grants Other Grant Programs Anti-Doping and Clean Sport Drug Courts Training Model Acts About Authorizations Budget, Performance, and Data Advisories FOIA and Legal Contact Us Office of National Drug Control Policy Since the program’s inception, the past 30-day prevalence of alcohol, tobacco, marijuana, and prescription drug misuse has declined significantly among middle school and high school aged youth. Learn more about the DFC Program’s effectiveness in the latest End of Year Report Evaluation Report and Executive Summary. DFC Program Impacts Download full size image Download full size image Download full size image 1/? Decreasing youth substance use. Youth substance use significantly decreases in communities with a DFC coalition. The graphs above show the percentage of students in communities with a DFC coalition who reported they had abstained from a drug in the past 30 days. In addition to the substances listed above, almost all current DFC coalitions have identified opioids—including prescription drugs, heroin, and synthetic opioids like fentanyl—as one of their top five target substances. Reaching youth across the country. In FY 2017, an estimated 63 million—or 1 in 5—Americans lived in a community with a DFC coalition, and since the program’s inception in 1997, over 154 million—or nearly half of all Americans—have lived in a community with a DFC coalition. Currently, the program reaches an estimated 2.5 million middle school students and 3.6 million high school students. By funding coalitions in all fifty states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico, the DFC program helps youth across the country and of all demographic and socio-economic statuses to live drug-free lives. Funding comprehensive solutions to youth substance use. By requiring representation from each of the 12 sectors, the DFC program helped mobilize an estimated 33,500 members representing everything from youth groups to local media, religious/fraternal organizations to the private sector, and law enforcement (including ONDCP’s HIDTAs) to educational institutions. This diversity in membership helps coalitions connect their communities’ resources to each other and develop comprehensive anti-substance use programming. The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search