https://www.whitehouse.gov/ondcp/about/budget-performance-data/
Budget, Performance, and Data | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Office of National Drug Control Policy Budget, Performance, and Data Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard In this section HomeThe AdministrationExecutive OfficesOffice of National Drug Control Policy The Administration’s Approach The Drug Crisis The Administration’s Strategy President’s Commission on Opioids The HIDTA Program Overview Designation Process Program Impacts The DFC Program Overview Application Process Program Impacts Enhancement Grants Other Grant Programs Anti-Doping and Clean Sport Drug Courts Training Model Acts About Authorizations Budget, Performance, and Data Advisories FOIA and Legal Contact Us Office of National Drug Control Policy Budget Highlights This document highlights key funding priorities identified in the President’s FY2021 National Drug Control Budget. Performance Reporting System The 2019 and 2020 Performance Reporting Systems list the Administration’s nine strategic goals to reduce the demand for and availability of illicit drugs Annual Accounting Report By Statute, National Drug Control Program agencies, as outlined in the National Drug Control Strategy, are required to conduct an annual detailed accounting of all funds expended for National Drug Control Program activities. Further, this accounting is authenticated by agency Inspectors General. Accounting and Performance Summary Report FY 2018 FY 2017 Drug Control Data Dashboard Here is a publicly available application of drug data in a machine-readable format and searchable by topic, drug, and location. Query results are output in a table by year, in addition to either a chart or map. This dashboard responds to the requirements specified in the Support Act of 2018. National Drug Control Strategy Data Supplement The Data Supplement provides the data that enables an assessment of current drug use and availability, impact of illicit drug use, treatment availability and consequences of their use. Here is the set of 166 Data Supplement tables in Excel format. Federal Government Grants for Substance Use Issues ONDCP works with other Federal agencies to provide public funding to address the drug crisis in states, tribes, counties, and communities across the nation. Organizations interested in funding for substance use prevention, treatment, and recovery efforts can view active funding opportunities here. Additionally, drug control grant awards can be found here. Lastly, information regarding the evaluation, performance, and effectiveness of Federal agency programs and initiatives can be found here. Parties interested in applying for Federal grants should review these resources on the Grants Learning Center. For more questions about applying for Federal grant opportunities, please reach out to Scott_L_Chronister@ondcp.eop.gov. The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search