https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/white-house-disburses-record-funds-high-intensity-drug-trafficking-areas-program/
White House Disburses Record Funds for High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Statements & Releases White House Disburses Record Funds for High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program Issued on: February 25, 2020 Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard Office of National Drug Control Policy All News Today, White House Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) Director Jim Carroll released the largest-ever amount of annual baseline funding for its High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA) Program. More than $266 million will be disbursed to 29 regional HIDTA Programs in 50 States, Washington, DC, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands, which is more than $2 million higher than the previous year’s funding level. The HIDTA Program is the Nation’s leading effort to coordinate the action and priorities of Federal, State, local, and tribal law enforcement partners in disrupting and dismantling drug trafficking organizations. “Not only do the men and women on HIDTA teams put their lives on the line every day, they also play a vital role in stopping deadly drugs from coming into communities across the country. The Trump Administration recognizes the effectiveness of the HIDTA program and will continue supporting it with the resources needed to keep Americans safe.” ONDCP Director Jim Carroll said. In 2018, President Trump, through ONDCP, established the first new HIDTA program in 17 years to combat emerging threats in Alaska, bringing to completion the Administration’s effort to ensure that all 50 States receive funding through the program. In 2018, HIDTA Program initiatives: Dismantled nearly 3,000 drug trafficking organizations Removed $16.5 billion in wholesale value of drugs and over 21,000 firearms from the street Made nearly 99,000 arrests For a map of HIDTA Program Counties, click HERE. The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search