https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/white-house-releases-national-drug-interdiction-plan-border-strategies/
White House Releases National Drug Interdiction Plan, Border Strategies | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Statements & Releases White House Releases National Drug Interdiction Plan, Border Strategies Issued on: February 20, 2020 Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard Office of National Drug Control Policy All News Today, White House Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) Director Jim Carroll released the National Interdiction Command and Control Plan (NICCP), which outlines the Trump Administration’s interdiction strategy to reduce the availability of illicit drugs in the United States. In conjunction with the recently released National Drug Control Strategy, the NICCP provides strategic guidance to relevant drug control agencies regarding interdiction efforts to disrupt Transnational Criminal Organizations that traffic drugs to the United States. “Almost all of the drugs killing thousands of Americans originate from outside the United States. The Plan demonstrates how close coordination across Federal, State, territorial, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies is crucial to stopping these deadly drugs from coming into our country and making their way into our communities. President Trump remains steadfastly committed to supporting the men and women who bravely serve to protect all Americans and share our mission of saving lives,” ONDCP Director Jim Carroll said. Additionally, the Administration released two counternarcotics strategies, outlining priorities in stopping the flow of drugs along both the Southwest and Northern borders. The Southwest Border Counternarcotics Strategy aims to prevent drug trafficking along the almost 2,000-mile border that separates the United States and Mexico. “The flow of fentanyl, heroin, methamphetamine, and other drugs across the Southwest border continues to pose a significant national security threat to the United States. Collaboration with our Mexican counterparts, increased border security, and continued partnerships between law enforcement agencies are all critical components to addressing this problem and ending the drug crisis,” Director Carroll said. The Northern Border Counternarcotics Strategy aims to prevent the illegal trafficking of drugs across the United States-Canada border with regard to our 5,225-mile shared border – the longest in the world between two countries. “Our Northern border poses unique challenges when it comes to stopping Transnational Criminal Organizations from trafficking illicit drugs. This Strategy will strengthen our ability to keep our citizens safe.” Director Carroll said. The National Interdiction Command and Control Plan can be accessed HERE. The Southwest Border Counternarcotics Strategy can be accessed HERE. The Northern Border Counternarcotics Strategy can be accessed HERE. The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search