https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/united-states-canada-statement-joint-action-plan-opioids/
United States-Canada Statement on Joint Action Plan on Opioids | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Statements & Releases United States-Canada Statement on Joint Action Plan on Opioids Issued on: February 5, 2020 Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard Office of National Drug Control Policy All News On January 31, 2020, officials of the governments of the United States and Canada convened in Washington, D.C. at the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy to move forward with a bilateral initiative to find solutions to the opioid crisis affecting both nations. When President Donald J. Trump and Prime Minister Justin Trudeau met on June 20, 2019, the leaders emphasized their shared concern for the increase in opioid-related deaths on both sides of the border. The United States and Canada agreed they would work more closely together to find solutions to the opioid crisis by developing a joint action plan. The two countries will boost their collaboration to combat opioids trafficking, including fentanyl and other synthetic opioids, and address the health consequences of problematic opioid use through public health, law enforcement and border security cooperation, as well as share information and best practices. The United States and Canada have been working together to determine key areas of focus requiring additional cooperation. The two countries also cooperate on opioid-related work in the G7 and through the North American Drug Dialogue, which most recently met in December 2019. At the January 31, 2020 meeting, the steering committee of the Joint Action Plan on Opioids moved forward with a framework and established working groups aimed to enhance current bilateral exchanges and engagements and to find new solutions to several key law enforcement, border security, and health challenges facing both countries. The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search