https://www.whitehouse.gov/ostp/internships/
Internships | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Office of Science and Technology Policy Internships Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard In this section HomeThe AdministrationExecutive OfficesOffice of Science and Technology Policy Legal Internships National Science and Technology Council Documents and Reports Office of Science and Technology Policy Serving as an OSTP Intern provides a unique opportunity to work closely with senior White House officials and science and technology staff in OSTP’s policy divisions (policy internship) or on OSTP’s legal team (legal internship). More information about the application process can be found by clicking here. Policy Internships Students interested in working on the development of national science and technology policy are recommended to apply for a policy internship. Ideal candidates have a passion for science and technology, strong research and writing skills, the ability to work while prioritizing several projects at once, a willingness to support outreach events and OSTP’s communications team (students interested in Communications or Public Affairs should inquire about opportunities to work primarily with OSTP’s communications team), and a desire for public service. Policy internships are open to interested students from all majors and academic programs. Any student, including law students, may apply for a policy internship. Policy internship applications only should be sent to: internships@ostp.eop.gov Questions about your policy internship application should be sent to: internships@ostp.eop.gov Application Timeline for Policy Interns Fall Semester 2020 (September – December): Applications Due June 5, 2020 Spring Semester 2021 (January – April): Applications Due October 23, 2020 Summer Semester 2021 (May – August): Applications Due January 17, 2021 Legal Internships Law students and LLM students who serve as Legal Interns with OSTP have a unique opportunity to gather insights into the practice of law at the highest levels of the U.S. Government. OSTP Legal Interns work under the supervision of OSTP’s General Counsel and other supervising attorneys. Legal Interns gain diverse experience working on a wide range of challenging substantive matters, including employment, appropriations, fiscal law, government contracts, ethics, information disclosure, international agreements, litigation, and legislative affairs. Legal internships are open ONLY to students enrolled in law school or an LLM program. Legal internship applications only should be sent to: Legal@ostp.eop.gov Questions about your legal internship application should be sent to: Legal@ostp.eop.gov Please send your cover letter, resume, writing sample, copy of transcript, and references as one PDF. Eligibility All applicants must be U.S. citizens. Permanent residents and students who do not currently hold U.S. citizenship are not eligible. Applicants must be enrolled, at least half-time, in an accredited college or university during the desired internship term. Students in undergraduate, graduate, law, LLM, and professional programs in all fields are encouraged to apply. Preference will be given to applicants available for 30+ hours per week. Application Timeline for Legal Interns Fall Semester (September – December): Applications Due June 5, 2020 Spring Semester 2021 (January – April): Applications Due October 23, 2020 Summer Semester 2021 (May – August): Applications Due January 17, 2021 OSTP is an Equal Opportunity Employer. The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search