https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/ai-that-reflects-american-values/
AI That Reflects American Values
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Infrastructure & Technology AI That Reflects American Values January 8, 2020 1 minute read Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard Office of Science and Technology Policy By: Michael Kratsios U.S. CTO All News We don’t have to decide between freedom and technology. Innovations in artificial intelligence are creating personalized cancer treatments, improving search and rescue disaster response, making our roadways safer with automated vehicles, and have the potential for so much more. But with growing concerns about data privacy, big tech companies, and the rise of technology-enabled authoritarianism in China and elsewhere, more people are starting to wonder: Must we decide between embracing this emerging technology and following our moral compass? That’s a false choice. We can advance emerging technology in a way that reflects our values of freedom, human rights and respect for human dignity. As part of the Trump Administration’s national AI strategy—the American AI Initiative—the White House is today proposing a first-of-its-kind set of regulatory principles to govern AI development in the private sector. Guided by these principles, innovators and government officials will ensure that as the United States embraces AI we also address the challenging technical and ethical questions that AI can create. Read the full op-ed here. This article was published on Bloomberg.com on January 7, 2020. The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search