https://www.whitehouse.gov/get-involved/internships/?utm_source=link
White House Internship Program | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search White House Internship Program Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard In this section HomeGet Involved Write or Call White House Internship Program Overview Presidential Departments Selection Process How to Apply White House Fellows Overview About the Fellowship Selection Process & Calendar Frequently Asked Questions How to Apply Apply to be a White House Intern The White House Internship Program is a public service leadership program that provides a unique opportunity to gain valuable professional experience and build leadership skills. Learn more about applying to be a White House Intern today! Learn More The White House Internship Program’s mission is to make the “People’s House” accessible to future leaders from around the nation. The White House Internship Program is a public service leadership program that provides a unique opportunity to gain valuable professional experience and build leadership skills. This hands-on program is designed to mentor and cultivate today’s young leaders, strengthen their understanding of the Executive Office, and prepare them for future public service opportunities. The President, First Lady, and White House staff are committed to providing young leaders an opportunity to develop their leadership skills and serve their country through the White House Internship Program. This program was developed to provide hands-on experience and cultivate meaningful skills. A select group of young men and women from across the country dedicate their time, talents, energy, and service to better the White House and the Nation. These committed citizens become part of the White House team. The assignments given to an intern on any given day could include: conducting research, managing incoming inquiries, attending meetings, writing memos, and staffing events. While interns’ responsibilities and tasks vary by department, all interns are united through weekly events, including a speaker series and professional development opportunities. Most importantly, the internship experience emphasizes community, and interns participate in service projects at non-profit organizations in Washington, D.C. For questions related to applications for the White House Internship Program, academic credit requirements, or for any general inquiries about the White House Internship Program, please email intern_application@who.eop.gov. The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search