https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/democratic-debates
Democratic Debates - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper U.S. Democratic Debates Coverage of the Democratic primary debates as the candidates pursue the 2020 presidential nomination. Coverage of the Democratic primary debates as the candidates pursue the 2020 presidential nomination. AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Highlights Photo Credit Biden and Sanders Fight Over Policy and Records in Head-to-Head Debate With the coronavirus as a backdrop, and with no audience in attendance, the two Democrats were at times feisty discussing their differences over health care. Mr. Biden also committed to choosing a woman as a running mate. By Alexander Burns and Jonathan Martin Photo Credit Six Takeaways From the March Democratic Debate On a night largely overshadowed by the global pandemic, Bernie Sanders pressed Joe Biden on his past Senate voting record as Mr. Biden sought to woo the left. By Reid J. Epstein, Katie Glueck and Shane Goldmacher Photo CreditErin Schaff/The New York Times Fact-Checking the Biden-Sanders Democratic Debate Our reporters are following all of the exchanges and fact-checking the two candidates, providing context and explanation. By The New York Times Photo CreditErin Schaff/The New York Times How Did Biden and Sanders Do in the Debate? Experts Weigh In Here’s a sampling of the reactions to the first one-on-one debate between the two remaining major Democratic candidates. By Maggie Astor AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Latest Search Search Clear this text input Grappling With the Impact of Coronavirus: This Week in the 2020 Race Joe Biden tries to break through, Bernie Sanders signals he’s staying in and another Super Tuesday (of sorts) emerges. By Matt Stevens and Maggie Astor Sanders Is Ready to Debate Again. Biden Says ‘We’ve Had Enough Debates.’ “I think we should get on with this,” Joe Biden said, dismissing the idea that another debate is needed with his rival, Senator Bernie Sanders. By Katie Glueck and Thomas Kaplan Bernie Sanders Plans to Participate in Next Debate, Campaign Says It was the strongest sign yet that he plans to keep competing against Joe Biden in the Democratic presidential primary. By Sydney Ember and Reid J. Epstein The Pandemic and the Primary How the coronavirus has changed the stakes of the presidential race — and created a crisis candidate. A Drop in TV Ratings for a Democratic Debate Praised for Its Substance The Biden-Sanders matchup attracted 10.8 million viewers, down from prior forums in Nevada and South Carolina. By Michael M. Grynbaum No Audience? No Problem. A TV Debate Like Few Others Gets High Marks. With no spectators in the house, the substantive Democratic debate on Sunday drew praise, though the in-studio broadcast was defined by the pandemic outside. By Michael M. Grynbaum On Politics With Lisa Lerer The Coronavirus Debate A crisis can provide a sharper view of how candidates approach the problems facing the country. By Lisa Lerer Biden and Sanders Assume Fighting Stances, a Healthy 6 Feet Apart The crisis brought them together for an unusual debate. And the debate highlighted their distance. By Matt Flegenheimer and Sydney Ember TimesVideo Watch: Biden and Sanders Clash in Democratic Debate In their first one-on-one matchup, former Vice President Joe Biden and Senator Bernie Sanders discussed how they would deal with the coronavirus pandemic and disagreed on health care policy. By CNN TimesVideo ‘This Is Like A War,’ Biden Says of Pandemic In a presidential debate, former Vice President Joe Biden and Senator Bernie Sanders clashed over how to handle health care during the coronavirus crisis. By CNN Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions