https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/28/us/politics/coronavirus-treasury-payment-protection-program.html
Treasury Vows to Recoup Virus Relief Aid Claimed by Big Companies - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics|Treasury Vows to Recoup Virus Relief Aid Claimed by Big Companies https://nyti.ms/3aPIMOe The Coronavirus Outbreak debugid:204 • Latest Updates Maps and Tracker New Symptom List Markets Life at Home Newsletter AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Treasury Vows to Recoup Virus Relief Aid Claimed by Big Companies The Treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin, said the administration would audit any company that received more than $2 million. President Trump and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin during a signing ceremony last week in the Oval Office at the White House in Washington.Credit...Jonathan Ernst/Reuters By Alan Rappeport April 28, 2020 WASHINGTON — The Los Angeles Lakers are not what most people think of as a small business. Yet the basketball franchise is the latest example of a large company that managed to qualify for small-business loans from a hastily devised government program intended to help barbershops, restaurants, dry cleaners and other mom-and-pop shops. Now, the Treasury Department is frantically trying to figure out how to recoup hundreds of millions of dollars from big companies that applied for loans and received them under the program’s initial terms. On Tuesday, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin made another attempt to deal with problems largely of his own making, as he tried to quickly funnel billions of dollars to businesses with vague guidelines. Threatening to hold big companies criminally liable if they did not meet the program’s revised criteria for accepting loans, he said the administration would audit any company that received more than $2 million. “I never expected in a million years that the Los Angeles Lakers, which I’m a big fan of the team, but I’m not a big fan of the fact that they took a $4.6 million loan,” Mr. Mnuchin said on CNBC. “I think that’s outrageous.” Congress created the Paycheck Protection Program as part of last month’s $2 trillion economic relief package, intending it as a lifeline for small shops so they could keep paying workers even if they had no customers. The money, which ultimately grew to $660 billion, came with strings attached, requiring businesses to keep their workers on the payroll for eight weeks if they wanted the loans forgiven, but the eligibility requirements were vague. It was left up to the Treasury Department to figure out how to get the money out fast and how to structure the program. Mr. Mnuchin put banks in charge, relying on them — rather than the government — to make the actual loans. To facilitate the program, the Treasury Department issued guidance that required businesses to merely certify, or promise, that they faced “economic uncertainty” and that the loans were “necessary” to support current operations. While some states are slowly reopening, economic uncertainty remains incredibly high, with the United States surpassing one million known coronavirus cases on Tuesday. More than 50,000 people have died, showing how an outbreak that began with a small trickle of cases in January has exploded into a national crisis. The bleak milestone was yet another sign of how the virus has upended life in America, taking lives, destroying families, spreading through meat plants, prisons and nursing homes, forcing businesses and schools to close, and causing more than 26 million people to lose their jobs in the past five weeks. On April 2, Mr. Mnuchin encouraged “all small businesses that have 500 or fewer people, please contact your lenders,” saying they could get a loan in a single day. By last week, as it became clear that companies like Shake Shack, Potbelly and AutoNation had received loans while others struggled to get approved, the tone shifted drastically, with Mr. Mnuchin saying the program was not meant for certain companies and moving to tighten eligibility requirements. Companies with “substantial market value and access to capital markets” should be ready to demonstrate why they need the money, the Treasury Department said. Latest Updates: Coronavirus Outbreak in the U.S. 100 days, one million confirmed infections, and a country transformed. New C.D.C. statistics reveal more about the true toll. A report on the U.S. economy is going to be bad, and the Fed is weighing further interventions. See more updates Updated 46m ago More live coverage: Global Markets New York As of Tuesday afternoon, the Small Business Administration had approved a total of nearly two million loans. President Trump, eager to portray the program as a success, convened an event at the White House with recipients of the small-business loans. “We’re processing loans at a pace never achieved before,” he said, adding that he was pleased that more loans appeared to be reaching smaller companies in the second round of the program. The president brought forward everyone from an owner of a seafood restaurant in Virginia to a coffee shop owner in North Carolina to say how grateful they were for the money. More than 100 companies have disclosed loans of more than $2 million, yet most have chosen to keep the money. So far, only 22 private and public companies have disclosed returning their funds, including the Los Angeles Lakers. Most of the companies returning money insist they qualified under the Treasury Department’s initial terms, but opted to return the loans once it changed its guidance to avoid bad publicity. The Lakers, which has about 300 employees, most likely qualified for the loan because the law made eligible businesses with 500 or fewer employees residing in the United States. Like the rest of the National Basketball Association, the team has taken a financial hit because games have been suspended for over a month. The management of the Lakers believed the team was in compliance with the terms of the program when it applied, according to a person with knowledge of the team’s thinking. “The Lakers qualified for and received a loan under the Payroll Protection Program,” the franchise said in a statement, adding that it decided to return the money “once we found out the funds from the program had been depleted.” DMC Global, an energy and industrial company based in Colorado, also said it believed it qualified for its $6.7 million loan, but chose to repay it “to avoid any further disputes at a time when the business environment is the most difficult.” Other companies have made clear they have no intention of returning the money. Hotels, luxury resorts and management companies that funnel money back to Ashford Inc., an asset management firm based in Dallas, have received about $53 million in federal virus aid. Ashford said in a statement that it was keeping the money to “protect jobs, as the legislation intended.” Fiesta Restaurant Group, which has received $15 million, said in a regulatory filing that it was reviewing the new guidance. Mr. Mnuchin has continued to defend the design of the program, saying it had helped 30 million workers, and blaming a handful of big businesses that for violating the spirit of the program and potentially breaking the law. “I really fault the borrowers,” Mr. Mnuchin said. “It’s the borrowers who have criminal liability if they made this certification and it’s not true.” Yet pursuing criminal claims against those who were approved for funds based on the government’s own rules at the time will be a heavy lift. “The problem for businesses applying for P.P.P. loans was there was no specific guidance on how exactly the loan applicant should determine — and certify — that a loan was ‘necessary,’” said Peter S. Hyun, a lawyer at Wiley who represents companies facing government enforcement actions. Mr. Mnuchin’s threat of legal action is likely to further complicate a program that has been marred by confusion and errors since it was first rolled out over a week in early April. Bank industry groups said on Tuesday that the Small Business Administration’s systems remained balky and that many lenders were getting locked out after 10 minutes of submitting applications. The Treasury Department’s effort to claw back some of the money has only compounded the problems, adding another layer of confusion for financial institutions that were encouraged by the government to get out loans fast. “The number one thing Treasury wanted us to do was to get money out the door,” said Richard Hunt, the president of the Consumer Bankers Association, noting that money was not always going where Congress intended because banks were instructed to honor the certifications made by borrowers. “It’s not like you can just open up the vault and say, ‘Here you go, America.’” In retrospect, he said, the government should have given money directly to businesses or offered even more generous economic stimulus payments or unemployment insurance. Megan Jeschke, a defense lawyer at Holland & Knight, said it was not clear that large companies or the banks were at fault for applying for loans. “I do think there is some ambiguity in the certification requirement to show necessity to maintain ongoing operations,” she said. “It doesn’t say the company has to be facing furloughed employees, it doesn’t require that they be facing imminent closure and it didn’t require them to seek capital from other locations.” Adding to the pressure on Mr. Mnuchin is that the program is quickly running out of funds again and it is not clear whether Congress will refill the pot like the last time. Lawmakers have already expressed concern about the program, with House Democrats notifying bank executives this month that they will be requesting documents and are worried “megabanks” are favoring certain customers and shutting out others. Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, the Republican chairman of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, said last week that he would use subpoena power to oversee the program and determine if companies made false certifications to the federal government to receive loans. On Tuesday, Senator Josh Hawley, a Republican from Missouri, criticized the Small Business Administration for failing to fix its technology problems and appearing to give preference to big banks. “My patience has run out with the mismanagement of the PPP,” Mr. Hawley said on Twitter. “Small banks AGAIN locked out for hours at a time while their small customers wait.” On a conference call with the Senate Democratic Caucus on Tuesday, Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the minority leader, said that Democrats must demand oversight hearings about the small-business program with Mr. Mnuchin as a witness. “We must hold the administration accountable for the mistakes they are making on the Small Business program, hospitals, testing, and more,” Mr. Schumer said, according to a person who was on the call. Democrats had pushed for more money to be allocated to the program at the start and they sought to bolster the Small Business Administration’s disaster grant fund so the agency would be less reliant on banks as intermediaries. “Treasury was wrong,” Senator Ben Cardin of Maryland, the top Democrat on the Senate Committee on Small Banking and Entrepreneurship, said in an interview. “They misjudged the cost of the program from the beginning.” David McCabe contributed reporting The Coronavirus Outbreak Frequently Asked Questions and Advice Updated April 11, 2020 When will this end? This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days. How can I help? The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.) What should I do if I feel sick? If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. Should I wear a mask? The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. How do I get tested? If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. How does coronavirus spread? It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face. Is there a vaccine yet? No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away. What makes this outbreak so different? Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard. What if somebody in my family gets sick? If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently. Should I stock up on groceries? Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home. Can I go to the park? Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea. Should I pull my money from the markets? That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years. What should I do with my 401(k)? Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions