https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics#after-mid1
Politics - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper AdvertisementContinue reading the main story U.S. Politics Election 2020 Democratic Polls Presidential Candidates Democratic Debates Highlights Photo CreditJonathan Ernst/Reuters Treasury Vows to Recoup Virus Relief Aid Claimed by Big Companies The Treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin, said the administration would audit any company that received more than $2 million. By Alan Rappeport Photo CreditNicholas Pfosi/Reuters Pence Tours Mayo Clinic and Flouts Its Rule That All Visitors Wear a Mask The vice president, who leads the White House’s coronavirus task force, said that masks were meant to prevent the spread of the virus and that he was tested regularly and does not have it. By Annie Karni Photo CreditDoral Chenoweth/The Columbus Dispatch, via Associated Press Ohio’s G.O.P. Governor Splits From Trump, and Rises in Popularity Mike DeWine, a low-key career politician, has followed health experts’ guidance as Ohio confronts the coronavirus. His constituents are overwhelmingly appreciative. By Trip Gabriel Photo CreditT.J. Kirkpatrick for The New York Times How a Digital Ad Strategy That Helped Trump Is Being Used Against Him A former Facebook employee is using a tool he employed to help President Trump win to conduct tests for a progressive group, Acronym, dedicated to ousting Mr. Trump from office. By Nick Corasaniti AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Latest Search Search Clear this text input On Politics: Another Split-Screen Endorsement An ex-nominee backs a presumptive one, and a third-party bid looms: This is your morning tip sheet. By Giovanni Russonello Fed Weighs Next Steps to Fortify Economy Shaken by Virus Monetary policy has taken a back seat as the central bank has begun lending programs to prop up markets reeling from the pandemic. By Jeanna Smialek Does Andrew Yang Want to Be New York’s Post-Coronavirus Mayor? The ex-presidential candidate has boosted his profile, giving money to Bronx residents and starting a podcast and an antidiscrimination campaign. By Matt Stevens Justin Amash Moves Toward a Third-Party Bid for President Mr. Amash, an independent congressman from Michigan who left the Republican Party last year, said he was exploring running as a Libertarian, adding new volatility to the race. By Jonathan Martin and Alexander Burns Mfume to Return to Congress, Succeeding Elijah Cummings He first held the seat from 1987 to 1996 until he left to serve as president of the N.A.A.C.P. and was replaced by Mr. Cummings, who died in October. By Emily Cochrane Trump Administration’s Message on Reopening Continues to Be Contradictory The president said the coronavirus wouldn’t come back while Dr. Anthony Fauci said it would be “a bad fall” and the attorney general threatened to sue states for enforcing restrictions. By Peter Baker On Politics Media Watch Digital Ad Strategy Shows Impact on Voters’ Views of Trump Here’s a deeper look at how the Barometer team at Acronym is testing the impact of its Facebook ads. By Nick Corasaniti Senate Republicans to Push Ahead on Judges Over Democratic Objections The Judiciary Committee is poised to consider the nomination of a McConnell protégé to an influential appeals court, while Democrats say the focus should be on the pandemic. By Carl Hulse TimesVideo Pence Tours Mayo Clinic Without a Mask Vice President Mike Pence did not wear a mask while visiting coronavirus patients at the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota, a violation of the facility’s policy. By The Associated Press What We Know About the Shooting Death of Ahmaud Arbery Mr. Arbery, a 25-year-old black man, was chased by armed white residents of a South Georgia neighborhood. He was shot dead during a confrontation. By Richard Fausset Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story The On Politics Newsletter A daily newsletter exploring the people, issues and ideas reshaping our political world.SIGN UP AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Follow Us nytpoliticstwitter page for nytpolitics nytpoliticsfacebook page for nytpolitics Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions