https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/29/business/economy/federal-reserve-coronavirus-economy.html
Federal Reserve Discusses Crisis, and Powell Will Meet Press - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Economy Today’s Paper Economy|Fed Weighs Next Steps to Fortify Economy Shaken by Virus https://nyti.ms/3f0Ti8H The Coronavirus Outbreak debugid:204 • Latest Updates Maps and Tracker New Symptom List Markets Life at Home Newsletter AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Fed Weighs Next Steps to Fortify Economy Shaken by Virus Monetary policy has taken a back seat as the central bank has begun lending programs to prop up markets reeling from the pandemic. Jerome H. Powell, the Federal Reserve chair, at a news conference in early March after the Fed moved to counter the economic impact of the coronavirus pandemic.Credit...Jacquelyn Martin/Associated Press By Jeanna Smialek April 29, 2020, 5:00 a.m. ET Federal Reserve officials are wrapping up meetings on Wednesday after two months of nonstop action to avert financial calamity as the coronavirus roiled markets and upended the world economy. The gathering is a chance to consider how to position monetary policy for the trials ahead. The Fed is now back on its regular schedule after two emergency meetings in March. At those sessions and in announcements since, it cut interest rates to zero, rolled out an unlimited bond-buying campaign and set up programs to smooth over corporate and government debt markets. Policymakers will issue a statement at 2 p.m., and the chair, Jerome H. Powell, will hold a news conference at 2:30. The Fed’s efforts to protect the economy have outstripped even its response to the 2008 financial crisis. Officials took weeks, not months, to slash interest rates to rock bottom. They have been buying bonds at a record pace, swelling their balance sheet to $6.6 trillion from less than $4.2 trillion in mid-February. And the Fed’s emergency lending authorities are reaching further this time: The central bank has said it will buy municipal debt and lend to both large and midsize companies, measures it did not take in the darkest days of the last crisis. The monetary intervention reflects the economic shock at hand. The coronavirus outbreak gripped the world quickly and nearly completely, bringing the gears of modern capitalism — stores, offices, amusement parks and more — to a standstill. Grocers and Amazon cannot plug the gap as perhaps a fifth of U.S. workers lose jobs, conferences and weddings are canceled, and tens of millions are kept home to help stem the pandemic. For all of the Fed’s activism, its most challenging job comes next. The shock may begin to recede, but it is unclear how quickly the economy can rebound. Latest Updates: Economy A report on the U.S. economy is going to be bad, and there is worse to come. Wall Street is set to open higher as global stocks inch up. At Boeing, the news is bad: 26 percent and job cuts are coming. See more updates Updated 10m ago More live coverage: Global U.S. New York A first glimpse at the Fed’s playbook may come Wednesday. Policymakers could hint that they will leave interest rates unchanged for months or years, and some economists think they could offer guidance about their bond-buying plans. Analysts are divided over what details to expect, but one thing seems likely: Mr. Powell will pledge to do whatever it takes to get the country through a tight economic spot. “This is a transition meeting for them,” said Michael Gapen, chief United States economist at Barclays. It’s “the end of the beginning, not the beginning of the end.” The financial system remains relatively stable, thanks in part to the central bank’s March efforts, which traders and strategists say kept key bond markets functioning. As a result, credit can continue flowing to businesses and households in need of cash. That’s an important advantage over 2008, when a banking crisis helped to tip off the longest and worst downturn since the Great Depression. But the economy is a system with many moving parts, so the trajectory and timing of a recovery are unknowable. Consumers, for example, fuel about 70 percent of the economy. Many have either gone without a paycheck for all or part of the quarantine period or know someone who has. If that makes them more skittish about spending, they could hamstring a recovery. States are another case in point. After the last recession, state and local budget shortfalls led to public sector layoffs that slowed an already weak crawl back to prosperity. This time, governments have taken an intense hit, threatening again to hold back an economic rebound. The Fed is setting up emergency programs to help with short-term problems, allowing companies and governments to fund operations more easily. Officials have been rolling out lending facilities, backed by $454 billion that Congress deposited at the Treasury. One program will buy debt from states, cities and counties, most of it highly rated, helping local governments to meet their cash needs. Two other programs will buy corporate debt, and the promise that they are coming has helped big companies in the credit markets. Mr. Powell could use his news conference to hash out what comes next for the emergency lending programs. The central bank has earmarked less than half of the funding Congress gave the Treasury to protect against credit losses, so there is plenty left. Many programs are not yet operating. “You have to get the programs all up and running,” said Michael Feroli, chief U.S. economist at J.P. Morgan. If it’s like throwing spaghetti at the wall, “you have to see what spaghetti sticks.” Emergency lending programs are aimed more at keeping markets orderly than at stimulating the economy. When it comes to promoting growth, the Fed has limited room: Borrowing costs are already at rock-bottom, and officials have signaled their aversion to negative interest rates. But there are levers to pull. The Fed could make its bond-buying plans more concrete at this meeting, though many economists think that it will wait for more economic clarity. Officials could also pledge to leave interest rates unchanged for an extended period. “We expect an overarching commitment that the Fed will use all its tools aggressively to help restore the economy to full employment as rapidly as possible with inflation sustainably at target,” economists at Evercore ISI wrote in a note previewing the meeting. Mr. Powell may also indicate the Fed’s thinking about its limitations — for example, whether it can continue to buy securities without consequence. And he could emphasize that if economic shutdowns lift slowly and companies need grants instead of loans to survive, a remedy will fall to Congress. “These are lending powers, not spending powers,” Mr. Powell said on April 9, after the Fed unveiled many of its newest programs. “The Fed is not authorized to grant money to particular beneficiaries.” The Coronavirus Outbreak Frequently Asked Questions and Advice Updated April 11, 2020 When will this end? This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days. How can I help? The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.) What should I do if I feel sick? If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. Should I wear a mask? The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. How do I get tested? If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. How does coronavirus spread? It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face. Is there a vaccine yet? No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away. What makes this outbreak so different? Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard. What if somebody in my family gets sick? If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently. Should I stock up on groceries? Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home. Can I go to the park? Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea. Should I pull my money from the markets? That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years. What should I do with my 401(k)? Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions