https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/28/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-reopening.html
Trump Administration’s Message on Reopening Continues to Be Contradictory - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics|Trump Administration’s Message on Reopening Continues to Be Contradictory https://nyti.ms/2W5n0Rq The Coronavirus Outbreak debugid:204 • Latest Updates Maps and Tracker New Symptom List Markets Life at Home Newsletter AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Trump Administration’s Message on Reopening Continues to Be Contradictory The president said the coronavirus wouldn’t come back while Dr. Anthony Fauci said it would be “a bad fall” and the attorney general threatened to sue states for enforcing restrictions. President Trump hosted Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida on Tuesday to talk about reopening the state.Credit...Doug Mills/The New York Times By Peter Baker April 28, 2020 WASHINGTON — A week ago, President Trump chastised Georgia for starting to reopen. “It’s too soon,” he said. But on Tuesday, he cheered Texas as it began resuming business. “Great job,” he said. And Florida may be next as the president welcomed its governor to the Oval Office. White House guidelines urge states to retain coronavirus restrictions until they meet certain criteria, but Attorney General William P. Barr is now threatening to sue them if he deems those limits too strict. And even as the president talks about opening the country, he has ordered it closed to immigration, even suggesting on Tuesday that flights from Brazil be banned. With more and more states ready to resume some semblance of normal life, the messages from Mr. Trump and his administration at times have sounded contradictory and confusing. The president is anxious to get the stalled economy running again as the election grows nearer, and he has encouraged protests against restrictions in some states even as parts of his own government counsel caution for fear of rushing into a second wave of the disease. The contrast was on display on Tuesday even as the number of cases in the United States surpassed one million and the death toll of 52,000 approached the total American military casualties of the Vietnam War. Mr. Trump hosted Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida at the White House to talk about reopening a state that has stirred deep concern because of its disproportionate population of retirees and the crowded public beaches that remained open long after experts recommended they be closed. The president later staged a ceremony in the East Room with small businesses to talk about getting back to work. “Now that our experts believe that the worst days of the pandemic are behind us, Americans are looking forward to the safe and rapid reopening of our country,” Mr. Trump said at the event as he showcased several business owners and workers benefiting from the federal relief program approved by Congress. But shortly before that, one of his top health advisers, Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, was warning against precipitous action by the states. “Hopefully everyone does it according to the guidelines for ‘Opening Up America Again,’” Dr. Fauci said, referring to the federal recommendations during a video talk sponsored by the Economic Club of Washington, D.C. Otherwise, he said, premature action could lead to “a rebound to get us right back in the same boat that we were in a few weeks ago.” The president and the scientist also offered different projections about whether the virus would strike again in the fall and how hard. “This is going to go away and whether it comes back in a modified form in the fall we’ll be able to handle it,” Mr. Trump said confidently. “We’ll be able to put out spurts.” Dr. Fauci, on the other hand, said the virus “is not going to disappear from the planet” and will absolutely come back. “In my mind, it’s inevitable that we will have a return of the virus or maybe even that it never went away,” he said, adding that the United States “could be in for a bad fall” if no treatment is developed by then. Even in his own public appearances on Tuesday, Mr. Trump seemed to send multiple signals. He announced that he would sign an executive order meant to keep the meat industry open while suggesting that he would stop many visitors from Latin America, test anyone entering the United States from anywhere in the world and crack down on so-called sanctuary cities that protect undocumented immigrants. The jarringly dissonant messages have been a persistent feature of Mr. Trump’s response to the pandemic but take on particular consequence now as states, localities, businesses and workers look to Washington for guidance on when and how to begin easing the restrictions that have been credited with preventing a worse pandemic. Latest Updates: Coronavirus Outbreak in the U.S. 100 days, one million confirmed infections, and a country transformed. New C.D.C. statistics reveal more about the true toll. A report on the U.S. economy is going to be bad, and the Fed is weighing further interventions. See more updates Updated 42m ago More live coverage: Global Markets New York “All of our life’s experience has taught us one thing about conflicting information: It creates paralysis or contributes to ill-informed decisions,” said Chris Jennings, who was a top White House health adviser to Presidents Bill Clinton and Barack Obama. “Hardly a prescription for success; indeed a road map to failure. Having worked with states for decades, this is a tragedy.” Mr. Trump started his day by encouraging states to lift restrictions. “Many States moving to SAFELY & QUICKLY reopen!” he wrote in the morning, singling out Texas in particular and denying that there was any shortage of testing for the virus despite the complaints of many governors that they needed more to be able to determine how far the virus had spread before restoring a semblance of normal life. In hosting Mr. DeSantis at the White House, advisers said, Mr. Trump hoped to address nervousness among the battleground state’s senior citizens, who have been the most important part of his political base but are also the most vulnerable to the virus. Mr. DeSantis backed up the president, saying that “our ability to test exceeds the current demand.” Mr. Trump said that was “a fantastic thing.” The governor, whose stay-at-home order expires on Friday, plans to announce on Wednesday his strategy for what he called a gradual reopening, vowing to approach it in a “thoughtful, measured and data-driven way.” Mr. DeSantis defended his decision not to close as early as other states, saying he had taken “tailored” steps, unlike the “draconian” restrictions imposed in other states. “Everyone in the media was saying Florida was going to be like New York or Italy, and that has not happened,” he said. Florida continues to accept airline flights from Latin America, but Mr. Trump asked Mr. DeSantis if he would soon be “cutting off Brazil.” “Well, not necessarily cut them off,” Mr. DeSantis offered. “Would you ever want to ban certain countries?” Mr. Trump asked. If they were a threat to the United States, he said. The governor later suggested that he could potentially resume tourism, a critical industry for Florida. “We have to make safety a priority,” he said, but “I do think there’s a path to do that.” Responding to questions from reporters, Mr. Trump again defended his handling of the virus but did not respond directly when asked if he was receiving warnings in his daily intelligence briefing in January and February, as The Washington Post has reported. “I would have to check” the dates, he said. Data shows that Florida’s testing rate over the past week was slightly below the national average. As of Monday, the state was conducting an average of 60 tests per 100,000 residents, according to the Covid Tracking Project. The national average was 68 tests, with some states performing many more: Rhode Island was averaging 254 tests per 100,000 people, and New York 141. Florida has more than 32,800 coronavirus cases and has endured 1,170 deaths, most of them in the three populous counties from Miami to West Palm Beach. The state reported 83 new deaths between Monday and Tuesday, the highest single-day number in the state, after three days of unusually low death totals. But on a per capita basis, Florida has only one-tenth as many cases as New York and one-twentieth as many deaths. Dr. Aileen M. Marty, an infectious disease professor at Florida International University who has advised local governments on the coronavirus, said that just because Florida’s testing centers were not filled up did not mean the state was doing enough to test people who might be spreading the infection without showing signs of sickness. “What we should have been doing from the get-go is: You identify a case, you do the contact tracing and you test the close contacts,” she said. “There, you’re going to find the asymptomatic carriers.” Patricia Mazzei contributed reporting from Miami, and Maggie Haberman from New York. The Coronavirus Outbreak Frequently Asked Questions and Advice Updated April 11, 2020 When will this end? This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days. How can I help? The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.) What should I do if I feel sick? If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. Should I wear a mask? The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. How do I get tested? If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. How does coronavirus spread? It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face. Is there a vaccine yet? No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away. What makes this outbreak so different? Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard. What if somebody in my family gets sick? If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently. Should I stock up on groceries? Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home. Can I go to the park? Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea. Should I pull my money from the markets? That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years. What should I do with my 401(k)? Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions