https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/28/us/politics/senate-republicans-judicial-nominees.html
Senate Republicans to Push Ahead on Judges Over Democratic Objections - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics|Senate Republicans to Push Ahead on Judges Over Democratic Objections https://nyti.ms/35g8E4L The Coronavirus Outbreak debugid:204 • Latest Updates Maps and Tracker New Symptom List Markets Life at Home Newsletter AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Senate Republicans to Push Ahead on Judges Over Democratic Objections The Judiciary Committee is poised to consider the nomination of a McConnell protégé to an influential appeals court, while Democrats say the focus should be on the pandemic. “As soon as we get back in session, we’ll start confirming judges again,” Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, said last week.Credit...Anna Moneymaker/The New York Times By Carl Hulse April 28, 2020 WASHINGTON — Senate Republicans plan to push ahead next week with a confirmation hearing for a contested nominee to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, moving on a rapid timetable that signals they intend to remain aggressive this year in putting conservative judges on the bench, even amid a pandemic. A top Republican aide and others knowledgeable about the plans said the Judiciary Committee planned to hold a hearing as soon as next Wednesday to consider the nomination of Justin Walker, a U.S. District Court judge in Kentucky who is a protégé of Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader. The quick action reflects a new urgency on the part of Mr. McConnell to fulfill his pledge to “leave no vacancy behind” when it comes to installing judicial nominees. The coronavirus outbreak has cost valuable time he had planned to spend on the effort, forcing the Senate into an extended recess. It has also contributed to a grim political environment for Republicans, which could lift Democrats in the push to take over the Senate next year. A change in Senate control would bring an abrupt end to Mr. McConnell’s successful drive — in cooperation with President Trump — to place scores of conservatives on the federal bench. The majority leader’s office confirmed on Tuesday that the Senate would return to Washington on Monday as planned even though House leaders abruptly scrapped their scheduled return on the advice of congressional officials, including Congress’s attending physician. On a conference call with Republican senators on Tuesday, Mr. McConnell informed his colleagues that the Judiciary Committee would continue to move forward on judges upon their return, according to people knowledgeable about the call who did not want to be identified disclosing internal deliberations. At least one Republican said the party should be looking beyond judges given the pandemic. “As much as judges are important, what people want us to be focused on is Covid,” said Senator Lisa Murkowski, Republican of Alaska, the people said. Latest Updates: Coronavirus Outbreak in the U.S. 100 days, one million confirmed infections, and a country transformed. New C.D.C. statistics reveal more about the true toll. A report on the U.S. economy is going to be bad, and the Fed is weighing further interventions. See more updates Updated 48m ago More live coverage: Global Markets New York The prospect of a confirmation hearing also drew a rebuke from Democratic members of the Judiciary Committee, who wrote to Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and the chairman, to urge him to cancel it so the panel could focus on immediate pandemic issues. “There is no urgency to moving lifetime appointments at this juncture,” the letter said. “There is, however, considerable urgency — and growing public demand — for oversight of the federal government’s response to Covid-19,” the Democrats wrote. “Now is not the time to process routine judicial nominations,” they added. Mr. McConnell has been unapologetic about what his top priority is. “As soon as we get back in session, we’ll start confirming judges again,” Mr. McConnell told the conservative radio host Hugh Hewitt last week. “We need to have hearings, and we need to confirm judges.” Republicans have their eyes on confirming more than judges. The Senate Intelligence Committee could also convene a confirmation hearing next week for Representative John Ratcliffe, Republican of Texas, Mr. Trump’s nominee to be the director of national intelligence. Senators in both parties are eager to put in place a permanent spy chief, particularly at a time when intelligence gathering will play a large role in understanding the effects of the pandemic on American interests around the globe. And Mr. Trump has agitated for the Senate to get back to work confirming his nominees, threatening this month that if it did not, he would use a never-before-invoked power to force Congress to adjourn so that he could fill government vacancies himself. (Mr. McConnell promptly issued a statement making it clear that would not happen, and saying that he had promised Mr. Trump he would work to confirm nominees who were “mission-critical to the Covid-19 pandemic.”) Mr. Trump nominated Judge Walker, 37, to the prestigious appeals court on April 3, less than six months after he began serving on the district court bench. He was confirmed to that post last October despite being rated as unqualified by the American Bar Association because of his lack of experience. Mr. McConnell has known Judge Walker since he was in high school, considers him a brilliant legal mind and took him to the Oval Office this year to meet with the president. A former clerk to Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh, Judge Walker was one of his most ardent defenders during the brutal Supreme Court confirmation battle in 2018. Mr. McConnell and Justice Kavanaugh traveled to Louisville in March for Judge Walker’s formal investiture as a district court judge before his latest nomination. Progressive and civil rights groups opposed Judge Walker’s nomination initially and plan to do so again. In a letter sent to senators on Monday, the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights urged a vote against his confirmation, calling his nomination “a triumph of nepotism over neutrality” given his close relationship with Mr. McConnell. The group faulted Judge Walker for his stated opposition to the Affordable Care Act and what it described as ideologically charged comments in defense of Justice Kavanaugh, among other concerns. “At this perilous time in our nation’s history, the Senate should maintain a laser focus on efforts to save lives and mitigate the devastating economic impact of Covid-19 on the American people,” the letter said. “The Senate should not process judicial nominations — particularly those like Mr. Walker who seek to dismantle health care protections for vulnerable people — until the shock of the pandemic has been diminished.” Despite the opposition, Democrats cannot block Judge Walker’s nomination without some Republican defections under Senate rules that allow nominees to win approval on a simple majority vote. Judge Walker had unanimous Republican support last year, and it seems unlikely that any of Mr. McConnell’s colleagues would want to cross him on a nomination in which he has such a strong personal interest without a very good reason. Judge Walker is highly regarded in the conservative judicial advocacy community. The District of Columbia appeals court is considered a steppingstone to the Supreme Court, and its importance was on display on Tuesday when the court heard arguments by conference call in two cases with major significance for the balance of power between Congress and the White House. Since Mr. Trump’s election, he and Mr. McConnell have engaged in a concerted effort to reshape the federal courts and have installed more than 50 judges on the appeals courts and more than 130 on the lower district courts. With the available vacancies shrinking, Mr. McConnell and other Senate Republicans have reached out to sitting federal judges eligible for retirement to encourage them to think about stepping aside now if they want to be sure their successors are named by a Republican president. If the Senate proceeds with confirmation hearings, it will take some creativity and may require limits on the number of lawmakers in the room at any one time to allow appropriate social distancing between them and the nominees being questioned as well as other spectators who are allowed in. Nicholas Fandos contributed reporting. The Coronavirus Outbreak Frequently Asked Questions and Advice Updated April 11, 2020 When will this end? This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days. How can I help? The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.) What should I do if I feel sick? If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. Should I wear a mask? The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. How do I get tested? If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. How does coronavirus spread? It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face. Is there a vaccine yet? No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away. What makes this outbreak so different? Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard. What if somebody in my family gets sick? If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently. Should I stock up on groceries? Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home. Can I go to the park? Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea. Should I pull my money from the markets? That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years. What should I do with my 401(k)? Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions