https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion
Opinion - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Today’s Paper Opinion Columnists Charles M. Blow Jamelle Bouie David Brooks Frank Bruni Roger Cohen Gail Collins Ross Douthat Maureen Dowd Thomas L. Friedman Michelle Goldberg Nicholas Kristof Paul Krugman David Leonhardt Farhad Manjoo Jennifer Senior Bret Stephens Series Disability Fixes On Campus Red Century Sporting The Stone Vietnam '67 Editorials Op-Ed Letters Sunday Review Videos Politics World Gender & Society Business Tech Environment Health Culture Highlights Photo CreditRichard Brian/Reuters Who’s Profiting From the Coronavirus Crisis? Amid an economic catastrophe, a few billionaires are still winning. By William D. Cohan Photo Credit news analysis Why Zoom Is Terrible There’s a reason video apps make you feel awkward and unfulfilled. By Kate Murphy Photo CreditMourad Guichard/Reuters How French Workers Took on Amazon in the Middle of a Pandemic and Won Yes, it’s possible. By Cole Stangler Photo CreditMaddie McGarvey for The New York Times Thomas B. Edsall Trump Hasn’t Given Up on Divide and Conquer It worked for him before, but will the rising racial liberalism of white Democrats counter the rising racial conservatism of white Republicans? Is that even the right way to frame the question? By Thomas B. Edsall Thomas L. Friedman Photo CreditAnders Wiklund/TT News Agency, via Associated Press Is Sweden Doing It Right? The Swedes aren’t battling the coronavirus with broad lockdowns. By Thomas L. Friedman Photo CreditDoug Mills/The New York Times States Are in Crisis. Why Won’t Trump Help? Federal support for cities and states was a core part of the New Deal. The president is tearing it apart. By Lizabeth Cohen Photo CreditCaitlin Ochs/Reuters Shelter-in-Place Orders Are Perfectly Legal Supreme Court precedent comes down on the side of state and local governments. By Bernadette Meyler Photo CreditDamon Winter/The New York Times Joe Biden Is Not Hiding. He’s Lurking. Never get in the way of an incumbent who is digging his own grave. By Michelle Cottle Susan E. Rice Photo CreditDavid L. Ryan/The Boston Globe, via Getty Images It’s Not Enough to ‘Get Back to Normal’ We can rebuild better. Here’s how. By Susan E. Rice AdvertisementContinue reading the main story EditorialsMore in Editorials » Photo CreditNicholas Konrad Republicans, Who Do You Think Is Bailing Out Your State? State and local costs of dealing with the pandemic are skyrocketing as revenues plunge. By The Editorial Board Photo CreditNicholas Konrad How to Save Summer 2020 A balance can be found to be both safe and outdoors. By The Editorial Board Photo CreditDamon Winter/The New York Times Failing to Help Those Who Need It Most The distribution of coronavirus bailout funds requires more attention. By The Editorial Board Photo CreditPhoto illustration by Calla Kessler No One Deserves to Die of Covid-19 in Jail But more than 100 inmates already have. By The Editorial Board Photo CreditJoshua Bright for The New York Times A Breath of Fresh Air A program first founded to help city children escape tuberculosis finds new purpose during the coronavirus pandemic. By The Editorial Board Op-Ed ColumnistsMore in Op-Ed Columnists » Photo CreditAngela Weiss/Agence France-Presse &mdash; Getty Images Another Way the 2020s Might Be Like the 1930s The strikes at Amazon and elsewhere over working conditions and low pay have been small, but they may spark a new movement. By Jamelle Bouie Photo CreditGabby Jones for The New York Times There Is No Perfect Way Out of This In the absence of a coordinated federal response, fits and starts may be all we have. By Gail Collins and Bret Stephens Photo CreditBishara Mustafa/EyeEm, via Getty Images Peacocks and Vultures Are Circling the Deficit The only fiscal thing to fear is deficit fear itself. By Paul Krugman Photo CreditAl Drago for The New York Times For Trump, Lying Is a Super Power He will use deception to keep his bungled response to Covid-19 from ruining his re-election chances. By Charles M. Blow Photo CreditAudun Bakke Andersen — Getty Images In Praise of Pessimism This country is going to need its Eeyores. By Jennifer Senior AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Latest Search Search Clear this text input Baby Boomers Were Blasé About the Coronavirus? Why Did We Believe That? How an online trope can become mainstream news. By Alex Stone The Specter of Mexico’s Coronavirus Crash President López Obrador and businesses will have to work miracles to avoid economic catastrophe. By Ioan Grillo THE STONE We Can Make the Post-Pandemic World a Better Place Our obligations to one another won’t end when this crisis does. By Todd May Which Woman Should Be Biden’s Vice-Presidential Pick? Here are seven he might be considering. By Spencer Bokat-Lindell America Failed to Prepare for Disaster Long Before Trump Took Over Bracing for the worst saves lives and money, but voters are more likely to reward relief after the fact than they are careful planning. By Tali Mendelberg letters Trump’s Inaction and Ignorance During the Coronavirus Pandemic Readers fault the president for ignoring early warnings and liken his briefings to a radio show called “It Pays to Be Ignorant.” Why I’m Reopening My Georgia Nail Salon When the government is mostly just helping big business, the rest of us have to begin to find a new normal, as best as we can. By Jenna Cao You Need Something New to Watch. What About the Universe? Discover the boundaries of science — from your couch. By Sarah Klein and Tom Mason We Had 135 Employees. Now We Have One. No Loan Can Fix That. The Paycheck Protection Program may not be enough to save my bakery. By Jackie Victor What I Learned From Being Off My Anxiety Meds in a Pandemic How do I know therapy works? Because I’m surviving this. By Veronica Roth Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Follow Us nytopiniontwitter page for nytopinion nytopinionfacebook page for nytopinion AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Sign Up for the Debatable Newsletter The big debates, distilled. This comprehensive guide will put in context what people are saying about the pressing issues of the week. How-To Submit an Op-Ed Submit an Opinion Video Submit a Letter NYT Staff Editorial Board The Times's Masthead Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions