https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology
Technology - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Technology Today’s Paper AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Technology DealBook Markets Economy Energy Media Technology Personal Tech Entrepreneurship Your Money Highlights Photo CreditMatt Edge for The New York Times Marc Benioff’s $25 Million Blitz to Buy Protective Gear From China A call from a university chancellor set in motion a private-sector effort to procure 50 million masks, gowns and swabs for American medical facilities. By David Gelles Photo CreditJason Henry for The New York Times Facebook Restructures Its Security Teams The social network displaced more than two dozen employees who work on security, as the company fights threats such as cyberattacks. By Sheera Frenkel and Mike Isaac Photo CreditJeenah Moon/Reuters New York Attorney General Scrutinizes Amazon for Firing Warehouse Worker The attorney general said in a letter that Amazon may have violated laws in firing a Staten Island worker who led a protest against the company. By Karen Weise Photo CreditAlvaro Dominguez on tech You Are Being Influenced Digital influencers are shaping our habits, even now and even if we’re clueless about it. By Shira Ovide AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Personal TechnologyMore in Personal Technology » Photo CreditJ.D. Biersdorfer Create Your Own Digital Comics Whether You Can Draw or Not Even if you can’t draw a stick person, you can still express yourself and tell stories through the time-honored tradition of sequential art. By J. D. Biersdorfer Photo CreditLarian Studios Gaming Sales Are Up, but Production Is Down The coronavirus pandemic is offering mixed news and new challenges for gaming companies, both independent and corporate. By Jason Schreier Photo CreditJim Wilson/The New York Times Why Apple’s iPad Is the Gadget of the Pandemic Shelter-in-place orders have transformed the tablet computer from a superfluous device into a must-have. By Brian X. Chen Photo CreditFacebook Facebook to Introduce an App for Gaming Video games are surging in popularity in the pandemic. So Facebook is rolling out an app designed for creating and watching live gameplay. By Seth Schiesel Photo CreditHaruka Sakaguchi for The New York Times Apple, in a Virtual Unveiling, Introduces a $399 iPhone The new iPhone SE has the design of an older generation of iPhones, with the same computing power as newer ones. By Brian X. Chen Latest Search Search Clear this text input Their Met Gala, Their Way. You’re Invited. A group of internet kids are about to hold the biggest fashion party of the year. By Vanessa Friedman Times Insider Seeking Real Voices in China, Despite Censorship and Fear Subjects get nervous. Interviews can end quickly. Still, one Times reporter found people who were eager to talk, at least before he was expelled. By Raymond Zhong Alphabet’s Profit Is Up, but Company Warns of Difficulties The chief executive of Google’s parent company said it experienced a “significant and sudden slowdown” in advertising in March. By Daisuke Wakabayashi Investors Bet Giant Companies Will Dominate After Crisis The virus outbreak supercharged a continuing shift in the markets, with a few giant companies now exerting the most influence over the direction of stocks since the tech boom. By Matt Phillips Abortion by Telemedicine: A Growing Option as Access to Clinics Wanes The coronavirus has created a surge in demand for telemedicine of all types — including for a quietly expanding program for terminating pregnancies. By Pam Belluck Everyone Is Giving Away Cash on Instagram As the coronavirus continues to disrupt lives and livelihoods, influencers are offering free money to followers — and gaining a lot more in return. By Taylor Lorenz Commissioner Resigns After He Threw a Cat During Zoom Meeting “OK, first, I’d like to introduce my cat,” said a planning commissioner in Vallejo, Calif., lifting it close to the camera and then, with two hands, tossing it off screen. By Christopher Mele On Tech No, the Best Doesn’t Win “It just works” are some of the most powerful words in technology. By Shira Ovide Europe’s Privacy Law Hasn’t Shown Its Teeth, Frustrating Advocates Nearly two years in, there has been little enforcement of the General Data Protection Regulation, once seen as ushering in a new era. By Adam Satariano Start-Ups Pursue ‘Free Money’ With Relief Funds, Prompting Backlash Some young companies have turned to the government loans not for day-to-day survival but simply to buy useful time. By Erin Griffith and David McCabe Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Follow Us nytimestechtwitter page for nytimestech Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions