https://www.nytimes.com/section/science
Science - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Science Today’s Paper AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Science Climate Space & Cosmos Health Trilobites Sciencetake Out There Coronavirus Outbreak Highlights Photo CreditAgence France-Presse — Getty Images Coronavirus Disrupts Illegal Wildlife Trafficking, For Now Some conservationists see a chance to do lasting damage to criminal networks in the wake of the pandemic, but poaching may also rise. By Rachel Nuwer Photo CreditNamouni and Morais, NASA Out There A Nest of Alien Asteroids Orbits Our Sun Astronomers say they have found orphan rocks from another star, or stars, stashed in the outer solar system. By Dennis Overbye Photo CreditRaju Vyas Trilobites Birds That Eat Fire, Pet Food and Sugar Packets to Live Another Day A willingness to experiment with new foods and ways of foraging may make some birds less vulnerable to extinction. By Asher Elbein Photo CreditColin Donihue Trilobites Hurricanes Are Reshaping Evolution Across the Caribbean A new study of lizards in countries struck by hurricanes suggests cataclysmic weather can reshape entire species. By Joshua Sokol Out There Photo CreditNASA, ESA and STScI Hubble Marks 30 Years of Seeing a Universe Being Born and Dying A new image reminds us of what the orbiting observatory has let us see. By Dennis Overbye Trilobites Photo CreditSimon Pierre Barrette, José Grau de Puerto Montt, and Mats Wedin/Swedish Museum of Natural History Fossil Shows Cold-Blooded Frogs Lived on Warm Antarctica The specimen is some 40 million years old, and is probably related to species currently living in South America. By Lucas Joel Trilobites Photo CreditNatalie Keyssar for The New York Times New York and Boston Pigeons Don’t Mix The East Coast is made up of two pigeon genetic megacities, and a patch of Connecticut seems to be what’s keeping them apart. By Joshua Sokol Trilobites Photo CreditUniversity of Tübingen A Short, Pointy, 300,000-Year-Old Clue to Our Ancestors’ Hunting Prowess Archaeologists in Germany found a throwing stick that might have been used by a species that preceded Neanderthals. By Nicholas St. Fleur Photo CreditJessica Bock 5 Rules for Sheltering in Place With Cockroaches, Spiders and Turtles Coronavirus has prompted many scientists to make space in their homes for their lab animals. By Cara Giaimo AdvertisementContinue reading the main story TrilobitesMore in Trilobites » Photo CreditDmitry Bogdanov When Crocodiles Once Dived Like Dolphins and Whales They didn’t have blowholes, but an ancient lineage of crocodilians returned to the oceans in a manner similar to some marine mammals. By Becky Ferreira Photo CreditJones & Shimlock/Danita Delimont, via Alamy How the World’s Squarest Fish Gets Around The yellow boxfish is much more agile than it looks. By Cara Giaimo Photo CreditSchmidt Ocean Institute This Might Be the Longest Creature Ever Seen in the Ocean Scientists spotted a swirling siphonophore off Western Australia that was 150 feet long. By Devi Lockwood Photo CreditCenter for Dynamic Research of High Latitude Marine Ecosystems The Invasion of Antarctica Begins With Mussels The bivalves — likely transported from Patagonia via ship — are the first nonnative marine species to settle on the White Continent. By Katherine Kornei Photo CreditJim Cumming/Alamy Lynx Numbers Are in Decline in the West While the federal government weighs taking the Canada lynx off the list of threatened species, a new study points to reduced populations in Washington State, Colorado and Montana. By Karen Weintraub Latest Search Search Clear this text input Coronavirus Live Updates: 100 Days and One Million Confirmed Infections in U.S. Officially, more than 53,000 have died, according to The Times’s count, but death rates suggest the true toll is much higher. President Trump signed an order to keep meat plants open. New York’s mayor helped break up a crowded funeral in Brooklyn. Europe Prepares for a Coronavirus Summer: Live Updates The virus was found in tiny droplets at two Chinese hospitals, the first real-world examples that airborne transmission may be possible. Airborne Coronavirus Detected in Wuhan Hospitals While the RNA of the virus was found in tiny droplets in China, scientists don’t know if it was capable of transmitting the virus. By Kenneth Chang 阅读简体中文版閱讀繁體中文版 News Analysis Trump’s Response to Virus Reflects a Long Disregard for Science The president’s Covid-19 response has extended the administration’s longstanding practice of undermining scientific expertise for political purposes. By Lisa Friedman and Brad Plumer Spiking Death Rates Suggest Pandemic Toll Is Undercounted A mall operator plans to reopen shopping centers, government officials debate whether some pro sports could resume, and schools balk at spring reopenings. Unified in Coronavirus Lockdown, India Splinters Over Reopening As India starts loosening restrictions, a once-broad consensus among leaders on how to proceed has weakened — and many people are staying home anyway. By Kai Schultz and Sameer Yasir Abortion by Telemedicine: A Growing Option as Access to Clinics Wanes The coronavirus has created a surge in demand for telemedicine of all types — including for a quietly expanding program for terminating pregnancies. By Pam Belluck Study Finds Coronavirus in Tiny Airborne Droplets in Wuhan Even when governments don’t force people to stay home, fear does. Spain, France and Greece have announced plans to restart daily life, with caveats. ‘Quarantine Fatigue’ Has More People Going Outside New research shows that people are venturing out more frequently, and traveling farther from home. By Mihir Zaveri In Race for a Coronavirus Vaccine, an Oxford Group Leaps Ahead As scientists at the Jenner Institute prepare for mass clinical trials, new tests show their vaccine to be effective in monkeys. By David D. Kirkpatrick Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Sign Up for the Science Times Newsletter Every week, we'll bring you stories that capture the wonders of the human body, nature and the cosmos.SIGN UP AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Follow Us NYTimesSciencefacebook page for NYTimesScience @NYTSciencetwitter page for @NYTScience Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions