https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports
Sports - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Sports Today’s Paper AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Sports Baseball N.F.L. College Football N.B.A. College Basketball Hockey Soccer Golf Tennis Scoreboards M.L.B N.F.L. College Football N.B.A. W.N.B.A N.C.A.A N.H.L Golf Tennis Highlights Photo CreditDoug Mills/The New York Times Some Sports May Have to Skip This Year, Fauci Says Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the leading U.S. infectious disease expert, said widespread testing with speedy results would be needed if sports leagues are to safely restart their seasons. By James Wagner and Ken Belson Photo CreditMarco Garcia/Associated Press An Ironman Sale Is Pending Amid Coronavirus. Can Its Racing Mojo Endure? The world’s leading endurance brand thought its global racing schedule made it sufficiently diverse. A pandemic has revealed the flaw in that strategy. By Matthew Futterman Photo CreditBebeto Matthews/Associated Press on baseball Cooperstown: Wait Till Next Year? The Hall of Fame induction ceremony is still planned for late July, but making it happen with the proper fanfare seems impossible while the threat of the coronavirus looms. By Tyler Kepner Photo CreditIssei Kato/Reuters Summer Olympics in 2021? ‘Exceedingly Difficult’ Without a Coronavirus Vaccine A Japanese medical authority has raised doubt about staging the Games, even a year later than originally planned, unless an effective vaccine has been developed. By Motoko Rich and Andrew Keh The day in (no) sports Photo CreditPool photo by Niviere David/EPA, via Shutterstock Argentina and France Scrap Soccer Seasons But the South Korean F.A. Cup is back on, and some outdoor recreational activities will again be allowed in Washington State. By Victor Mather Photo CreditMichael Conroy/Associated Press Mekhi Becton, the Jets’ Top Draft Pick, ‘Moves People Like Furniture’ Becton is 6-foot-7 and weighs 364 pounds, but his array of skills tipped the scales for the Jets. By Danielle Allentuck Photo CreditAndreas Gebert/Reuters European Soccer Tries to Find a Way Back, or a Way Out The Netherlands has canceled its season. Germany wants to play again next month. But European soccer is finding that clarity tends not to last long. By Rory Smith Photo CreditHarry How/Getty Images Running Backs, Drafted Late, Are Still Coveted in the N.F.L. Seven teams, most with already strong rushing attacks, selected a running back in the second or third round of last week’s N.F.L. draft. By Bill Pennington Photo CreditMarcio Jose Sanchez/Associated Press Leandro Barbosa’s Family Grew During the Pandemic Barbosa, a Brazilian basketball player and one-time N.B.A. champion, and his wife found out they had the coronavirus shortly before she gave birth to their daughter. By Marc Stein Photo CreditCaleb Jones/Associated Press The Coronavirus Swell: Surf’s Up. Stay at Home. There’s also a widening schism between surfers able to get in the ocean and those forbidden from doing so. By Adam Skolnick Photo Credit Where the Major Sports Stand Amid the Coronavirus Pandemic A snapshot look at how the global sports calendar has shifted because of the virus. By Victor Mather and Joe Ward on tennis Photo Credit How I Found Common Ground With My Immigrant Dad on a Tennis Court Our writer was not much of an athlete growing up but long pined to connect with his father through sports. It took 30 years and a humid day on a tennis court in India. By Sopan Deb the day in (no) sports Photo CreditMartin Meissner/Associated Press Will Returning Players Be Out of Shape? Soccer May Need More Subs FIFA suggested a rule change for when play returns. Plus: bull riding, Formula One and rugby in Australia and New Zealand. By Victor Mather Photo CreditJonathan Daniel/Allsport Dennis Rodman’s College Coach Recalls Recruiting Him Over H-O-R-S-E Lonn Reisman, who coached Rodman at Southeastern Oklahoma State, said he dreamed of wooing the “raw” elite rebounder from junior college but figured it wasn’t possible. By Scott Cacciola AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Latest Search Search Clear this text input Those We’ve Lost Francisco Mendez, Boxing Gym Owner and Mentor, Dies at 61 Arriving from Mexico, he found his calling outside the ring and attracted a following of clients with different backgrounds and goals. By Sam Roberts Harland Svare, 89, Giants Linebacker and Young Head Coach, Dies Brainy more than brawny, he helped put New York in three title games, then became, with the Rams, the youngest head coach in modern N.F.L. history at the time. By Richard Goldstein Patriots Draft Kicker With Tattoo of a Militia Group The kicker, Justin Rohrwasser, out of Marshall University, said that he did not support the far-right group, the Three Percenters, and also that he would cover the tattoo. By Ken Belson The N.F.L. Draft Pics You Haven’t Seen In its remote broadcast format, the N.F.L. gave sports fans something to talk about until games begin this fall. Here are some of the most interesting moments, through the eyes of an illustrator. By Ted Crow and Andrea Zagata Giants Draft Pick Andrew Thomas Is ‘Everything You Want in a Left Tackle’ Thomas, the No. 4 overall pick in the N.F.L. draft, described the opportunity to block for Saquon Barkley and Daniel Jones as a “blessing.” By David Waldstein High School Sports Pushed Out of Bounds by the Pandemic The cancellation of the Texas state basketball tournament hit a small town hard and reflected the wave of spring sports shutdowns in all 50 states during a normally busy playoff season. By Jeré Longman sideline chat Katie Ledecky Is Swimming, and Studying The five-time Olympic gold medalist is taking an infectious diseases class at Stanford and still finding a way to train. By Karen Crouse Tim Duncan to Springfield? Take It to the Bank During his Hall of Fame career, Duncan was called the Big Fundamental largely because of his signature shots off the backboard, which were as mundane as they were effective. By Marc Stein On Tennis Could a Merger of Men’s and Women’s Tennis Come Out of This Hiatus? The idea of combined tours has been around since at least the 1970s. But with the sport shut down, Roger Federer made a suggestion that could lead to a complex and ego-bruising endeavor. By Christopher Clarey on pro football The N.F.L. Draft Adds More Stars to the Cool Kids’ Conference The N.F.L. is a quarterback’s league and one conference has the edge in exciting young stars. By Bill Pennington Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Marc Stein on the N.B.A. He has covered Jordan. He's covered Kobe. And LeBron vs. the Warriors. Go behind the N.B.A.'s curtain with the league's foremost expert in a new basketball newsletter.SIGN UP AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Follow Us NYTSportstwitter page for NYTSports Sign Up for the Sports Newsletter Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week.SIGN UP Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions