https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts
Arts - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Arts Today’s Paper AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Arts Art & Design Books Dance Movies Music Television Theater Pop Culture Watching Highlights Photo CreditVincent Tullo for The New York Times Critic’s Notebook The Hidden Feats That Built New York’s Towering Skyscrapers The ingenuity of engineers helped build landmarks like Black Rock and the new supertalls. Our critic takes a virtual tour with Guy Nordenson. By Michael Kimmelman Photo CreditDamien Maloney for The New York Times Alice Wu’s Lesbian Rom-Com Was Influential, but Her Follow-Up Wasn’t Easy When she made “Saving Face,” Wu didn’t expect to influence a generation of Asian-American actresses and directors. Her new Netflix movie arrives in a much different time. By Robert Ito Photo Credit 5 Minutes That Will Make You Love Opera We asked Patti Smith, John Turturro, Renée Fleming and others to pick the music that moves them. Listen to their choices. Photo CreditSara Krulwich/The New York Times Face Masks and Fewer Seats: One Theater Tries Saving Summer Barrington Stage Company in the Berkshires is bucking the trend of cancellations, planning instead a limited season with a litany of precautions. By Michael Paulson Photo CreditTom Jamieson for The New York Times The Vinyl? It’s Pricey. The Sound? Otherworldly. The Electric Recording Co. in London cuts albums the way they were made in the 1950s and ’60s — literally. By Ben Sisario Critic’s Pick Photo CreditEnda Bowe/Hulu ‘Normal People’ Review: Their Love Will Tear You Apart Sally Rooney’s novel comes to Hulu as a sad, sexy, class- and power-conscious coming-of-age story. By James Poniewozik Photo Credit The Latest Indulgence in Hip-Hop Videos? Coronavirus Protection The pandemic has engendered new ways to flex. By Jon Caramanica Photo CreditNaomi Fraser ‘The World Goes Away’ and Other Lessons From Online Acting Class Remote learning may not be ideal, but Zoom encourages acting students to be more nuanced, more private and more intimate. By Elisabeth Vincentelli Photo CreditKeone Madrid Feeling Down? Try a Good Vibes Dance for Your Hands After their own battle with the coronavirus, the hip-hop choreographers Keone and Mari Madrid propose a few simple gestures that you can do anywhere. By Brian Seibert AdvertisementContinue reading the main story What to Do During This Time Photo CreditPeyton Fulford for The New York Times Wednesday’s Livestreaming Events: A Virtual Apple Family Play, Offset and Tones and I Appointment viewing is back. Find out what online events to look for today, and when to tune in. By Maya Salam Photo CreditBruce M. White 2 Art Gallery Shows to Explore From Home Galleries and museums are getting creative about presenting work online during the coronavirus crisis. Here are two shows worth viewing virtually. Photo CreditFrom left: Fox Searchlight Pictures; MGM; Magnolia Pictures Films to Heal a Broken Moment These characters find reasons to carry on in the face of hardship or crisis — examples that can help in our own difficult time. By Joshua Rothkopf Photo CreditLara Solanki/Netflix Mindy Kaling’s Netflix Show Tells a New Kind of Story: One Like Hers The new series “Never Have I Ever” is a comedy about a first-generation Indian-American teenage girl much like Kaling, updated to a 2020 setting. By Priya Arora Photo CreditJodie Mack Your Short Film of the Day Need a break? Some distraction? Here’s a little something to take you away. Latest Search Search Clear this text input Online Auction to Aid Comic-Book Shops Raises Over $430,000 Comic-book creators contributed their work, and buyers made their bids on Twitter, to help employees and businesses upended by the coronavirus. By George Gene Gustines Many Museums Won’t Survive the Virus. How Do You Close One Down? Institutions will face ethical and sometimes legal obligations to transfer their collections elsewhere. The process can be costly and time-consuming, experts say. By Nina Siegal Drawing Places, Capturing Memories The writer learns to step away from life filtered through a camera and catches memories with pencil and paper. By Susanne Masters Tech Tip Create Your Own Digital Comics Whether You Can Draw or Not Even if you can’t draw a stick person, you can still express yourself and tell stories through the time-honored tradition of sequential art. By J. D. Biersdorfer Wednesday’s Livestreaming Events: A Virtual Apple Family Play, Offset and Tones and I Appointment viewing is back. Find out what online events to look for today, and when to tune in. By Maya Salam Audiobooks What the History Books Won’t Tell You About George Washington Alexis Coe’s “You Never Forget Your First” updates the male-dominated narrative of the founding father. By Tatiana Schlossberg Barbara Ehrenreich Contains Multitudes. They’re All Ticked Off. The essays in “Had I Known” cover four decades in Ehrenreich’s varied career, and reveal that one commonality has been her tough, acerbic voice. By Jennifer Szalai Critic’s Pick ‘Murder to Mercy’ Review: Rethinking a Life Sentence Daniel H. Birman’s documentary about Cyntoia Brown is a moving reflection of what criminal justice reform means in personal terms. By Bilal Qureshi ‘A Secret Love’ Review: A Lesbian Couple’s Enduring Affection This tender film explores the partnership between two women who lived, in public and to kin, as dear friends for six decades. By Natalia Winkelman Best of Late Night Late Night Takes Mike Pence to Task for Not Wearing a Face Mask “Oh my God. You are the head of the coronavirus task force. And you’re in the hospital, and you’re the only one without a mask,” Stephen Colbert said of Mr. Pence’s visit to the Mayo Clinic. By Trish Bendix Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Follow Us @nytimesartstwitter page for @nytimesarts @nytimestheatertwitter page for @nytimestheater @nytimesmusictwitter page for @nytimesmusic AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions