https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thomas_Jefferson
Thomas Jefferson - Wikipedia
Thomas Jefferson From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search 3rd president of the United States This article is about third president of the United States. For other uses, see Thomas Jefferson (disambiguation). Thomas Jefferson 3rd President of the United States In office March 4, 1801 – March 4, 1809 Vice President Aaron Burr (1801–1805) George Clinton (1805–1809) Preceded by John Adams Succeeded by James Madison 2nd Vice President of the United States In office March 4, 1797 – March 4, 1801 President John Adams Preceded by John Adams Succeeded by Aaron Burr 1st United States Secretary of State In office March 22, 1790 – December 31, 1793 President George Washington Preceded by John Jay (acting) Succeeded by Edmund Randolph 2nd United States Minister to France In office May 17, 1785 – September 26, 1789 Appointed by Confederation Congress Preceded by Benjamin Franklin Succeeded by William Short Minister Plenipotentiary for Negotiating Treaties of Amity and Commerce In office May 12, 1784 – May 11, 1786 Appointed by Confederation Congress Preceded by Office established Succeeded by Office abolished Delegate to the Congress of the Confederation from Virginia In office November 3, 1783 – May 7, 1784 Preceded by James Madison Succeeded by Richard Lee 2nd Governor of Virginia In office June 1, 1779 – June 3, 1781 Preceded by Patrick Henry Succeeded by William Fleming Delegate to the Continental Congress from Virginia In office June 20, 1775 – September 26, 1776 Preceded by George Washington Succeeded by John Harvie Constituency Second Continental Congress Personal details Born (1743-04-13)April 13, 1743 Shadwell, Colony of Virginia, British America Died July 4, 1826(1826-07-04) (aged 83) Charlottesville, Virginia, U.S. Resting place Monticello, Virginia, U.S. Political party Democratic-Republican Spouse(s) Martha Wayles (m. 1772; died 1782) Children 6 with Martha Wayles: including Martha and Mary Up to 6 with Sally Hemings: including Madison and Eston Education College of William and Mary (BA) Signature Part of the Politics series on Republicanism Central concepts Anti-monarchism Liberty as non-domination Popular sovereignty Republic Res publica Social contract Schools Classical Federal Kemalism Nasserism Neo Venizelism Types of republics Autonomous Capitalist Christian Corporate Democratic Federal Federal parliamentary Islamic Parliamentary People's Revolutionary Sister Soviet Important thinkers Hannah Arendt Cicero James Harrington Thomas Jefferson John Locke James Madison Montesquieu Polybius Jean-Jacques Rousseau Algernon Sidney Mary Wollstonecraft History Roman Republic Gaṇa sangha Classical Athens Republic of Venice Republic of Genoa Republic of Florence Dutch Republic American Revolution French Revolution Spanish American wars of independence Trienio Liberal French Revolution of 1848 5 October 1910 revolution Xinhai Revolution Russian Revolution German Revolution of 1918–19 Turkish War of Independence Mongolian Revolution of 1921 11 September 1922 Revolution 1935 Greek coup d'état attempt Spanish Civil War 1946 Italian institutional referendum Egyptian revolution of 1952 14 July Revolution North Yemen Civil War Zanzibar Revolution 1969 Libyan coup d'état Cambodian coup of 1970 Metapolitefsi Iranian Revolution 1987 Fijian coups d'état Nepalese Civil War By country Australia Barbados Canada Ireland Jamaica Morocco Netherlands New Zealand Spain Sweden Turkey United Kingdom Scotland United States Related topics Communitarianism Democracy Liberalism Monarchism Politics portal v t e Thomas Jefferson (April 13, 1743[a] – July 4, 1826) was an American statesman, diplomat, lawyer, architect, philosopher, and Founding Father who served as the third president of the United States from 1801 to 1809. He previously served as the second vice president of the United States from 1797 to 1801. The principal author of the Declaration of Independence, Jefferson was a proponent of democracy, republicanism, and individual rights, motivating American colonists to break from the Kingdom of Great Britain and form a new nation; he produced formative documents and decisions at both the state and national level. During the American Revolution, he represented Virginia in the Continental Congress that adopted the Declaration, drafted the law for religious freedom as a Virginia legislator, and served as the second Governor of Virginia from 1779 to 1781, during the American Revolutionary War. He became the United States Minister to France in May 1785, and subsequently, the nation's first secretary of state under President George Washington from 1790 to 1793. Jefferson and James Madison organized the Democratic-Republican Party to oppose the Federalist Party during the formation of the First Party System. With Madison, he anonymously wrote the provocative Kentucky and Virginia Resolutions in 1798 and 1799, which sought to strengthen states' rights by nullifying the federal Alien and Sedition Acts. As president, Jefferson pursued the nation's shipping and trade interests against Barbary pirates and aggressive British trade policies. He also organized the Louisiana Purchase, almost doubling the country's territory. As a result of peace negotiations with France, his administration reduced military forces. He was reelected in 1804. Jefferson's second term was beset with difficulties at home, including the trial of former vice president Aaron Burr. American foreign trade was diminished when Jefferson implemented the Embargo Act of 1807, in response to British threats to U.S. shipping. In 1803, Jefferson began a controversial process of Indian tribe removal to the newly organized Louisiana Territory, and he signed the Act Prohibiting Importation of Slaves in 1807. After retiring from public office, Jefferson founded the University of Virginia. Jefferson, while primarily a planter, lawyer and politician, mastered many disciplines, which ranged from surveying and mathematics to horticulture and mechanics. He was an architect in the classical tradition. Jefferson's keen interest in religion and philosophy led to his presidency of the American Philosophical Society; he shunned organized religion but was influenced by both Christianity and deism. A philologist, Jefferson knew several languages. He was a prolific letter writer and corresponded with many prominent people. His only full-length book is Notes on the State of Virginia (1785), considered perhaps the most important American book published before 1800.[1] Although Jefferson is regarded as a leading spokesman for democracy and republicanism in the era of the Enlightenment, some modern scholarship has been critical of Jefferson, finding a contradiction between his ownership and trading of many slaves that worked his plantations, and his famous declaration that "all men are created equal". Although the matter remains a subject of debate, most historians believe that Jefferson had a sexual relationship with his slave Sally Hemings, a mixed-race woman who was a half-sister to his late wife and that he fathered at least one of her children. Presidential scholars and historians generally praise Jefferson's public achievements, including his advocacy of religious freedom and tolerance in Virginia. Jefferson continues to rank highly among U.S. presidents. Contents 1 Early life and career 1.1 Education, early family life 1.2 Lawyer and House of Burgesses 1.3 Monticello, marriage and family 2 Political career 1775–1800 2.1 Declaration of Independence 2.2 Virginia state legislator and governor 2.3 Notes on the State of Virginia 2.4 Member of Congress 2.5 Minister to France 2.6 Secretary of State 2.7 Election of 1796 and vice presidency 2.8 Election of 1800 3 Presidency (1801–1809) 3.1 First Barbary War 3.2 Louisiana Purchase 3.3 Lewis and Clark expedition 3.4 American Indian policies 3.5 Re-election in 1804 and second term 3.6 Burr conspiracy and trial 3.7 Chesapeake–Leopard affair and Embargo Act 4 Post-presidency (1809–1826) 4.1 University of Virginia 4.2 Reconciliation with Adams 4.3 Autobiography 4.4 Lafayette's visit 4.5 Final days, death, and burial 5 Political, social and religious views 5.1 Society and government 5.2 Democracy 5.3 Religion 5.4 Banks 5.5 Slavery 5.5.1 Historical assessment 5.5.2 Jefferson–Hemings controversy 6 Interests and activities 6.1 American Philosophical Society 6.2 Linguistics 6.3 Inventions 7 Legacy 7.1 Historical reputation 7.2 Memorials and honors 8 Writings 9 See also 10 Notes 11 References 12 Bibliography 12.1 Scholarly studies 12.1.1 Thomas Jefferson Foundation sources 12.1.2 Primary sources 12.1.3 Web site sources 12.2 Teaching methods 13 External links Early life and career Main article: Early life and career of Thomas Jefferson Thomas Jefferson was born on April 13, 1743 (April 2, 1743, Old Style, Julian calendar), at the family home in Shadwell in the Colony of Virginia, the third of ten children.[2] He was of English, and possibly Welsh, descent and was born a British subject.[3] His father Peter Jefferson was a planter and surveyor who died when Jefferson was fourteen; his mother was Jane Randolph.[b] Peter Jefferson moved his family to Tuckahoe Plantation in 1745 upon the death of William Randolph, the plantation's owner and Jefferson's friend, who in his will had named him guardian of his children. The Jeffersons returned to Shadwell in 1752, where Peter died in 1757; his estate was divided between his sons Thomas and Randolph.[5] Thomas inherited approximately 5,000 acres (2,000 ha; 7.8 sq mi) of land, including Monticello. He assumed full authority over his property at age 21.[6] Coat of arms of Thomas Jefferson Education, early family life Wren Building (rear), College of William & Mary where Jefferson studied Jefferson began his education beside the Randolph children with tutors at Tuckahoe.[7] Thomas' father, Peter, was self-taught, and regretting not having a formal education, he entered Thomas into an English school early, at age five. In 1752, at age nine, he began attending a local school run by a Scottish Presbyterian minister and also began studying the natural world, which he grew to love. At this time he began studying Latin, Greek, and French, while also learning to ride horses. Thomas also read books from his father's modest library.[8] He was taught from 1758 to 1760 by the Reverend James Maury near Gordonsville, Virginia, where he studied history, science, and the classics while boarding with Maury's family.[9][8] During this period Jefferson came to know and befriended various American Indians, including the famous Cherokee chief Ontasseté who often stopped at Shadwell to visit, on their way to Williamsburg to trade.[10][11] During the two years Jefferson was with the Maury family, he traveled to Williamsburg and was a guest of Colonel Dandridge, father of Martha Washington. In Williamsburg the young Jefferson met and came to admire Patrick Henry, who was eight years his senior, sharing a common interest of violin playing.[12] Jefferson entered the College of William & Mary in Williamsburg, Virginia, at age 16 and studied mathematics, metaphysics, and philosophy under professor William Small. Small introduced Jefferson to George Wythe and Francis Fauquier along with British Empiricists including John Locke, Francis Bacon, and Isaac Newton. Small, Wythe, and Fauquier recognized Jefferson as a man of exceptional ability and included him in their inner circle where he became a regular member of their Friday dinner parties where politics and philosophy were discussed. Jefferson later wrote that he "heard more common good sense, more rational & philosophical conversations than in all the rest of my life".[13] During his first year at the college he was given more to parties and dancing and was not very frugal with his expenditures; during his second year, regretting that he had squandered away much time and money, he applied himself to fifteen hours of study a day.[14] Jefferson improved his French and Greek and his skill at the violin. He graduated two years after starting in 1762. He read the law under Wythe's tutelage to obtain his law license while working as a law clerk in his office.[15] He also read a wide variety of English classics and political works.[16] Jefferson was well read in a broad variety of subjects, which along with law and philosophy, included history, natural law, natural religion, ethics, and several areas in science, including agriculture. Overall, he drew very deeply on the philosophers. During the years of study under the watchful eye of Wythe, Jefferson authored a survey of his extensive readings in his Commonplace Book.[17] Wythe was so impressed with Jefferson, that he would later bequeath his entire library to Jefferson.[18] The year 1765 was an eventful one in Jefferson's family. In July, his sister Martha married his close friend and college companion Dabney Carr, which greatly pleased Jefferson. In October, he mourned his sister Jane's unexpected death at age 25 and wrote a farewell epitaph in Latin.[19] Jefferson treasured his books and amassed a total of three libraries in his lifetime. The first, a library of 200 volumes started in his youth which included books inherited from his father and left to him by George Wythe,[20] was destroyed when his Shadwell home burned in a 1770 fire. Nevertheless, he had replenished his collection with 1,250 titles by 1773, and it grew to almost 6,500 volumes by 1814.[21] After the British burned the Library of Congress during the War of 1812, he sold this second library to the U.S. government to jumpstart the Library of Congress collection, for the price of $23,950. Jefferson used a portion of the money secured by the sale to pay off some of his large debt, remitting $10,500 to William Short and $4,870 to John Barnes of Georgetown. However, he soon resumed collecting for his personal library, writing to John Adams, "I cannot live without books."[22][23] He began to construct a new library of his personal favorites and by the time of his death a decade later it had grown to almost 2,000 volumes.[24] Lawyer and House of Burgesses House of Burgesses in Williamsburg, Virginia, where Jefferson served 1769–1775 Jefferson was admitted to the Virginia bar in 1767 and then lived with his mother at Shadwell.[25] In addition to practicing law, Jefferson represented Albemarle County as a delegate in the Virginia House of Burgesses from 1769 until 1775.[26] He pursued reforms to slavery. He introduced legislation in 1769 allowing masters to take control over the emancipation of slaves, taking discretion away from the royal governor and General Court. He persuaded his cousin Richard Bland to spearhead the legislation's passage, but reaction was strongly negative.[27] Jefferson took seven cases for freedom-seeking slaves[28] and waived his fee for one client, who claimed that he should be freed before the statutory age of thirty-one required for emancipation in cases with inter-racial grandparents.[29] He invoked the Natural Law to argue, "everyone comes into the world with a right to his own person and using it at his own will ... This is what is called personal liberty, and is given him by the author of nature, because it is necessary for his own sustenance." The judge cut him off and ruled against his client. As a consolation, Jefferson gave his client some money, conceivably used to aid his escape shortly thereafter.[29] He later incorporated this sentiment into the Declaration of Independence.[30] He also took on 68 cases for the General Court of Virginia in 1767, in addition to three notable cases: Howell v. Netherland (1770), Bolling v. Bolling (1771), and Blair v. Blair (1772).[31] The British Parliament passed the Intolerable Acts in 1774, and Jefferson wrote a resolution calling for a "Day of Fasting and Prayer" in protest, as well as a boycott of all British goods. His resolution was later expanded into A Summary View of the Rights of British America, in which he argued that people have the right to govern themselves.[32] Monticello, marriage and family Jefferson's home Monticello in Virginia In 1768, Jefferson began constructing his primary residence Monticello (Italian for "Little Mountain") on a hilltop overlooking his 5,000-acre (20 km2; 7.8 sq mi) plantation.[c] He spent most of his adult life designing Monticello as architect and was quoted as saying, "Architecture is my delight, and putting up, and pulling down, one of my favorite amusements." [34] Construction was done mostly by local masons and carpenters, assisted by Jefferson's slaves.[35] He moved into the South Pavilion in 1770. Turning Monticello into a neoclassical masterpiece in the Palladian style was his perennial project.[36] On January 1, 1772, Jefferson married his third cousin[37] Martha Wayles Skelton, the 23-year-old widow of Bathurst Skelton, and she moved into the South Pavilion.[38][39] She was a frequent hostess for Jefferson and managed the large household. Biographer Dumas Malone described the marriage as the happiest period of Jefferson's life.[40] Martha read widely, did fine needlework, and was a skilled pianist; Jefferson often accompanied her on the violin or cello.[41] During their ten years of marriage, Martha bore six children: Martha "Patsy" (1772–1836); Jane (1774–1775); a son who lived for only a few weeks in 1777; Mary Wayles "Polly" (1778–1804); Lucy Elizabeth (1780–1781); and another Lucy Elizabeth (1782–1784).[42][d] Only Martha and Mary survived more than a few years.[45] Jefferson's daughter Martha Martha's father John Wayles died in 1773, and the couple inherited 135 people of color who were legally enslaved, 11,000 acres (45 km2; 17 sq mi), and the estate's debts. The debts took Jefferson years to satisfy, contributing to his financial problems.[38] Martha later suffered from ill health, including diabetes, and frequent childbirth further weakened her. Her mother had died young, and Martha lived with two stepmothers as a girl. A few months after the birth of her last child, she died on September 6, 1782, at the age of 33 with Jefferson at her bedside. Shortly before her death, Martha made Jefferson promise never to marry again, telling him that she could not bear to have another mother raise her children.[46] Jefferson was grief-stricken by her death, relentlessly pacing back and forth, nearly to the point of exhaustion. He emerged after three weeks, taking long rambling rides on secluded roads with his daughter Martha, by her description "a solitary witness to many a violent burst of grief".[45][47] After working as Secretary of State (1790–93), he returned to Monticello and initiated a remodeling based on the architectural concepts which he had acquired in Europe. The work continued throughout most of his presidency, being finished in 1809.[48][49] Political career 1775–1800 Declaration of Independence U.S. Declaration of Independence – 1823 facsimile of the engrossed copy Main article: United States Declaration of Independence Jefferson was the primary author of the Declaration of Independence. The document's social and political ideals were proposed by Jefferson before the inauguration of Washington.[50] At age 33, he was one of the youngest delegates to the Second Continental Congress beginning in 1775 at the outbreak of the American Revolutionary War, where a formal declaration of independence from Britain was overwhelmingly favored.[51] Jefferson chose his words for the Declaration in June 1775, shortly after the war had begun, where the idea of independence from Britain had long since become popular among the colonies. He was inspired by the Enlightenment ideals of the sanctity of the individual, as well as by the writings of Locke and Montesquieu.[52] He sought out John Adams, an emerging leader of the Congress.[53] They became close friends and Adams supported Jefferson's appointment to the Committee of Five formed to draft a declaration of independence in furtherance of the Lee Resolution passed by the Congress, which declared the United Colonies independent. The committee initially thought that Adams should write the document, but Adams persuaded the committee to choose Jefferson.[e] Jefferson consulted with other committee members over the next seventeen days and drew on his own proposed draft of the Virginia Constitution, George Mason's draft of the Virginia Declaration of Rights, and other sources.[55] The other committee members made some changes, and a final draft was presented to the Congress on June 28, 1776.[56] The declaration was introduced on Friday, June 28, and Congress began debate over its contents on Monday, July 1,[56] resulting in the omission of a fourth of the text, including a passage critical of King George III and the slave trade.[57] Jefferson resented the changes, but he did not speak publicly about the revisions.[f] On July 4, 1776, the Congress ratified the Declaration, and delegates signed it on August 2; in doing so, they were committing an act of treason against the Crown.[59] Jefferson's preamble is regarded as an enduring statement of human rights, and the phrase "all men are created equal" has been called "one of the best-known sentences in the English language" containing "the most potent and consequential words in American history".[57][60] Virginia state legislator and governor Governor's Palace, Governor Jefferson's residence in Williamsburg At the start of the Revolution, Jefferson was a Colonel and was named commander of the Albemarle County Militia on September 26, 1775.[61] He was then elected to the Virginia House of Delegates for Albemarle County in September 1776, when finalizing a state constitution was a priority.[62][63] For nearly three years, he assisted with the constitution and was especially proud of his Bill for Establishing Religious Freedom, which forbade state support of religious institutions or enforcement of religious doctrine.[64] The bill failed to pass, as did his legislation to disestablish the Anglican church, but both were later revived by James Madison.[65] In 1778, Jefferson was given the task of revising the state's laws. He drafted 126 bills in three years, including laws to streamline the judicial system. Jefferson's proposed statutes provided for general education, which he considered the basis of "republican government".[62] He had become alarmed that Virginia's powerful landed gentry were becoming a hereditary aristocracy. He took the lead in abolishing what he called "feudal and unnatural distinctions." He targeted laws such as entail and primogeniture by which the oldest son inherited all the land. The entail laws made it perpetual: the one who inherited the land could not sell it, but had to bequeath it to his oldest son. As a result, increasingly large plantations, worked by white tenant farmers and by black slaves, gained in size and wealth and political power in the eastern ("Tidewater") tobacco areas.[66] During the Revolutionary era, all such laws were repealed by the states that had them.[67] Jefferson was elected governor for one-year terms in 1779 and 1780.[68] He transferred the state capital from Williamsburg to Richmond, and introduced measures for public education, religious freedom, and revision of inheritance laws.[69] During General Benedict Arnold's 1781 invasion of Virginia, Jefferson escaped Richmond just ahead of the British forces, and the city was burned to the ground.[70][71] Jefferson sent an emergency dispatch to Colonel Sampson Mathews, whose militia was traveling nearby, to thwart Arnold's efforts.[72][73] General Charles Cornwallis that spring dispatched a cavalry force led by Banastre Tarleton to capture Jefferson and members of the Assembly at Monticello, but Jack Jouett of the Virginia militia thwarted the British plan. Jefferson escaped to Poplar Forest, his plantation to the west.[74] When the General Assembly reconvened in June 1781, it conducted an inquiry into Jefferson's actions which eventually concluded that Jefferson had acted with honor—but he was not re-elected.[75] In April of the same year, his daughter Lucy died at age one. A second daughter of that name was born the following year, but she died at age three.[76] Notes on the State of Virginia Main article: Notes on the State of Virginia Jefferson received a letter of inquiry in 1780 about the geography, history, and government of Virginia from French diplomat François Barbé-Marbois, who was gathering data on the United States. Jefferson included his written responses in a book, Notes on the State of Virginia (1785).[77] He compiled the book over five years, including reviews of scientific knowledge, Virginia's history, politics, laws, culture, and geography.[78] The book explores what constitutes a good society, using Virginia as an exemplar. Jefferson included extensive data about the state's natural resources and economy and wrote at length about slavery, miscegenation, and his belief that blacks and whites could not live together as free people in one society because of justified resentments of the enslaved.[79] He also wrote of his views on the American Indian and considered them as equals in body and mind to European settlers.[80][81] Notes was first published in 1785 in French and appeared in English in 1787.[82] Biographer George Tucker considered the work "surprising in the extent of the information which a single individual had been thus able to acquire, as to the physical features of the state",[83] and Merrill D. Peterson described it as an accomplishment for which all Americans should be grateful.[84] Member of Congress Independence Hall Assembly Room where Jefferson served in Congress The United States formed a Congress of the Confederation following victory in the Revolutionary War and a peace treaty with Great Britain in 1783, to which Jefferson was appointed as a Virginia delegate. He was a member of the committee setting foreign exchange rates and recommended an American currency based on the decimal system which was adopted.[85] He advised the formation of the Committee of the States to fill the power vacuum when Congress was in recess.[86] The Committee met when Congress adjourned, but disagreements rendered it dysfunctional.[87] In the Congress's 1783–84 session, Jefferson acted as chairman of committees to establish a viable system of government for the new Republic and to propose a policy for the settlement of the western territories. Jefferson was the principal author of the Land Ordinance of 1784, whereby Virginia ceded to the national government the vast area that it claimed northwest of the Ohio River. He insisted that this territory should not be used as colonial territory by any of the thirteen states, but that it should be divided into sections which could become states. He plotted borders for nine new states in their initial stages and wrote an ordinance banning slavery in all the nation's territories. Congress made extensive revisions, including rejection of the ban on slavery.[88][89] The provisions banning slavery were known later as the "Jefferson Proviso;" they were modified and implemented three years later in the Northwest Ordinance of 1787 and became the law for the entire Northwest.[88] Minister to France Portrait of Thomas Jefferson while in London in 1786 by Mather Brown In 1784, Jefferson was sent by the Congress of the Confederation[g] to join Benjamin Franklin and John Adams in Paris as Minister Plenipotentiary for Negotiating Treaties of Amity and Commerce with Great Britain, Russia, Austria, Prussia, Denmark, Saxony, Hamburg, Spain, Portugal, Naples, Sardinia, The Pope, Venice, Genoa, Tuscany, the Sublime Porte, Morocco, Algiers, Tunis, and Tripoli.[90] Some believed that the recently widowed Jefferson was depressed and that the assignment would distract him from his wife's death.[91] With his young daughter Patsy and two servants, he departed in July 1784, arriving in Paris the next month.[92][93] Less than a year later he was assigned the additional duty of succeeding Franklin as Minister to France. French foreign minister Count de Vergennes commented, "You replace Monsieur Franklin, I hear." Jefferson replied, "I succeed. No man can replace him."[94] During his five years in Paris, Jefferson played a leading role in shaping the foreign policy of the United States.[95] Jefferson had Patsy educated at the Pentemont Abbey. In 1786, he met and fell in love with Maria Cosway, an accomplished—and married—Italian-English musician of 27. They saw each other frequently over a period of six weeks. She returned to Great Britain, but they maintained a lifelong correspondence.[96] Jefferson sent for his youngest surviving child, nine-year-old Polly, in June 1787, who was accompanied on her voyage by a young slave from Monticello, Sally Hemings. Jefferson had taken her older brother James Hemings to Paris as part of his domestic staff, and had him trained in French cuisine.[97] According to Sally's son, Madison Hemings, the 16-year-old Sally and Jefferson began a sexual relationship in Paris, where she became pregnant.[98] According to his account, Hemings agreed to return to the United States only after Jefferson promised to free her children when they came of age.[98] While in France, Jefferson became a regular companion of the Marquis de Lafayette, a French hero of the American Revolutionary War, and Jefferson used his influence to procure trade agreements with France.[99][100] As the French Revolution began, Jefferson allowed his Paris residence, the Hôtel de Langeac, to be used for meetings by Lafayette and other republicans. He was in Paris during the storming of the Bastille[101] and consulted with Lafayette while the latter drafted the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen.[102] Jefferson often found his mail opened by postmasters, so he invented his own enciphering device, the "Wheel Cipher"; he wrote important communications in code for the rest of his career.[103][h] Jefferson left Paris for America in September 1789, intending to return soon; however, President George Washington appointed him the country's first Secretary of State, forcing him to remain in the nation's capital.[104] Jefferson remained a firm supporter of the French Revolution while opposing its more violent elements.[105] Secretary of State See also: First Party System Thomas Jefferson in 1791 at 49 by Charles Willson Peale Soon after returning from France, Jefferson accepted Washington's invitation to serve as Secretary of State.[106] Pressing issues at this time were the national debt and the permanent location of the capital. Jefferson opposed a national debt, preferring that each state retire its own, in contrast to Secretary of the Treasury Alexander Hamilton, who desired consolidation of various states' debts by the federal government.[107] Hamilton also had bold plans to establish the national credit and a national bank, but Jefferson strenuously opposed this and attempted to undermine his agenda, which nearly led Washington to dismiss him from his cabinet. Jefferson later left the cabinet voluntarily.[108] The second major issue was the capital's permanent location. Hamilton favored a capital close to the major commercial centers of the Northeast, while Washington, Jefferson, and other agrarians wanted it located to the south.[109] After lengthy deadlock, the Compromise of 1790 was struck, permanently locating the capital on the Potomac River, and the federal government assumed the war debts of all thirteen states.[109] While serving in the government in Philadelphia, Jefferson and political protegee Congressman James Madison founded the National Gazette in 1791, along with poet and writer Phillip Freneau, in an effort to counter Hamilton's Federalist policies, which Hamilton was promoting through the influential Federalist newspaper the Gazette of the United States. The National Gazette made particular criticism of the policies promoted by Hamilton, often through anonymous essays signed by the pen name Brutus at Jefferson's urging, which were actually written by Madison.[110] In the Spring of 1791, Jefferson and Madison took a vacation to Vermont. Jefferson had been suffering from migraines and he was tired of Hamilton in-fighting.[111] In May 1792, Jefferson was alarmed at the political rivalries taking shape; he wrote to Washington, urging him to run for re-election that year as a unifying influence.[112] He urged the president to rally the citizenry to a party that would defend democracy against the corrupting influence of banks and monied interests, as espoused by the Federalists. Historians recognize this letter as the earliest delineation of Democratic-Republican Party principles.[113] Jefferson, Madison, and other Democratic-Republican organizers favored states' rights and local control and opposed federal concentration of power, whereas Hamilton sought more power for the federal government.[114] Jefferson supported France against Britain when the two nations fought in 1793, though his arguments in the Cabinet were undercut by French Revolutionary envoy Edmond-Charles Genêt's open scorn for President Washington.[115] In his discussions with British Minister George Hammond, Jefferson tried unsuccessfully to persuade the British to acknowledge their violation of the Treaty of Paris, to vacate their posts in the Northwest, and to compensate the U.S. for slaves whom the British had freed at the end of the war. Seeking a return to private life, Jefferson resigned the cabinet position in December 1793, perhaps to bolster his political influence from outside the administration.[116] After the Washington administration negotiated the Jay Treaty with Great Britain (1794), Jefferson saw a cause around which to rally his party and organized a national opposition from Monticello.[117] The treaty, designed by Hamilton, aimed to reduce tensions and increase trade. Jefferson warned that it would increase British influence and subvert republicanism, calling it "the boldest act [Hamilton and Jay] ever ventured on to undermine the government".[118] The Treaty passed, but it expired in 1805 during Jefferson's administration and was not renewed. Jefferson continued his pro-French stance; during the violence of the Reign of Terror, he declined to disavow the revolution: "To back away from France would be to undermine the cause of republicanism in America."[119] Election of 1796 and vice presidency Further information: United States presidential election, 1796 and Democratic-Republican Party 1796 election results In the presidential campaign of 1796, Jefferson lost the electoral college vote to Federalist John Adams by 71–68 and was elected vice president because of a mistake in voting for Adams's running mate. As presiding officer of the Senate, he assumed a more passive role than his predecessor John Adams. He allowed the Senate to freely conduct debates and confined his participation to procedural issues, which he called an "honorable and easy" role.[120] Jefferson had previously studied parliamentary law and procedure for 40 years, making him unusually well qualified to serve as presiding officer. In 1800, he published his assembled notes on Senate procedure as A Manual of Parliamentary Practice.[121] Jefferson would cast only three tie-breaking votes in the Senate. Jefferson held four confidential talks with French consul Joseph Létombe in the spring of 1797 where he attacked Adams, predicting that his rival would serve only one term. He also encouraged France to invade England, and advised Létombe to stall any American envoys sent to Paris by instructing him to "listen to them and then drag out the negotiations at length and mollify them by the urbanity of the proceedings."[122] This toughened the tone that the French government adopted toward the Adams administration. After Adams's initial peace envoys were rebuffed, Jefferson and his supporters lobbied for the release of papers related to the incident, called the XYZ Affair after the letters used to disguise the identities of the French officials involved.[123] However, the tactic backfired when it was revealed that French officials had demanded bribes, rallying public support against France. The U.S. began an undeclared naval war with France known as the Quasi-War.[124] During the Adams presidency, the Federalists rebuilt the military, levied new taxes, and enacted the Alien and Sedition Acts. Jefferson believed that these laws were intended to suppress Democratic-Republicans, rather than prosecute enemy aliens, and considered them unconstitutional.[125] To rally opposition, he and James Madison anonymously wrote the Kentucky and Virginia Resolutions, declaring that the federal government had no right to exercise powers not specifically delegated to it by the states.[126] The resolutions followed the "interposition" approach of Madison, in which states may shield their citizens from federal laws that they deem unconstitutional. Jefferson advocated nullification, allowing states to invalidate federal laws altogether.[127][i] Jefferson warned that, "unless arrested at the threshold", the Alien and Sedition Acts would "necessarily drive these states into revolution and blood".[129] Historian Ron Chernow claims that "the theoretical damage of the Kentucky and Virginia Resolutions was deep and lasting, and was a recipe for disunion", contributing to the American Civil War as well as later events.[130] Washington was so appalled by the resolutions that he told Patrick Henry that, if "systematically and pertinaciously pursued", the resolutions would "dissolve the union or produce coercion."[131] Jefferson had always admired Washington's leadership skills but felt that his Federalist party was leading the country in the wrong direction. Jefferson thought it wise not to attend his funeral in 1799 because of acute differences with Washington while serving as Secretary of State, and remained at Monticello.[132] Election of 1800 1800 election results Main article: United States presidential election, 1800 In the 1800 presidential election, Jefferson contended once more against Federalist John Adams. Adams's campaign was weakened by unpopular taxes and vicious Federalist infighting over his actions in the Quasi-War.[133] Republicans pointed to the Alien and Sedition Acts and accused the Federalists of being secret monarchists, while Federalists charged that Jefferson was a godless libertine in thrall to the French.[134] Historian Joyce Appleby said the election was "one of the most acrimonious in the annals of American history".[135] Republicans ultimately won more electoral college votes, but Jefferson and his vice-presidential candidate Aaron Burr unexpectedly received an equal total. Due to the tie, the election was decided by the Federalist-dominated House of Representatives.[136][j] Hamilton lobbied Federalist representatives on Jefferson's behalf, believing him a lesser political evil than Burr. On February 17, 1801, after thirty-six ballots, the House elected Jefferson president and Burr vice president.[137] The win was marked by Republican celebrations throughout the country.[138] Some of Jefferson's opponents argued that he owed his victory over Adams to the South's inflated number of electors, due to counting slaves as partial population under the Three-Fifths Compromise.[139] Others alleged that Jefferson secured James Asheton Bayard's tie-breaking electoral vote by guaranteeing the retention of various Federalist posts in the government.[137] Jefferson disputed the allegation, and the historical record is inconclusive.[140] The transition proceeded smoothly, marking a watershed in American history. As historian Gordon S. Wood writes, "it was one of the first popular elections in modern history that resulted in the peaceful transfer of power from one 'party' to another."[137] Presidency (1801–1809) Main article: Presidency of Thomas Jefferson The Jefferson Cabinet Office Name Term President Thomas Jefferson 1801–1809 Vice President Aaron Burr 1801–1805 George Clinton 1805–1809 Secretary of State James Madison 1801–1809 Secretary of Treasury Samuel Dexter 1801 Albert Gallatin 1801–1809 Secretary of War Henry Dearborn 1801–1809 Attorney General Levi Lincoln Sr. 1801–1804 John Breckinridge 1805–1806 Caesar A. Rodney 1807–1809 Secretary of the Navy Benjamin Stoddert 1801 Robert Smith 1801–1809 Jefferson was sworn in by Chief Justice John Marshall at the new Capitol in Washington, D.C. on March 4, 1801. In contrast to his predecessors, Jefferson exhibited a dislike of formal etiquette; he arrived alone on horseback without escort, dressed plainly[141] and, after dismounting, retired his own horse to the nearby stable.[142] His inaugural address struck a note of reconciliation, declaring, "We have been called by different names brethren of the same principle. We are all Republicans, we are all Federalists."[143] Ideologically, Jefferson stressed "equal and exact justice to all men", minority rights, and freedom of speech, religion, and press.[144] He said that a free and democratic government was "the strongest government on earth."[144] He nominated moderate Republicans to his cabinet: James Madison as Secretary of State, Henry Dearborn as Secretary of War, Levi Lincoln as Attorney General, and Robert Smith as Secretary of the Navy.[145] Upon assuming office, he first confronted an $83 million national debt.[146] He began dismantling Hamilton's Federalist fiscal system with help from Secretary of Treasury Albert Gallatin.[145] Jefferson's administration eliminated the whiskey excise and other taxes after closing "unnecessary offices" and cutting "useless establishments and expenses".[147][148] They attempted to disassemble the national bank and its effect of increasing national debt, but were dissuaded by Gallatin.[149] Jefferson shrank the Navy, deeming it unnecessary in peacetime.[150] Instead, he incorporated a fleet of inexpensive gunboats used only for defense with the idea that they would not provoke foreign hostilities.[147] After two terms, he had lowered the national debt from $83 million to $57 million.[146] Jefferson pardoned several of those imprisoned under the Alien and Sedition Acts.[151] Congressional Republicans repealed the Judiciary Act of 1801, which removed nearly all of Adams's "midnight judges" from office. A subsequent appointment battle led to the Supreme Court's landmark decision in Marbury v. Madison, asserting judicial review over executive branch actions.[152] Jefferson appointed three Supreme Court justices: William Johnson (1804), Henry Brockholst Livingston (1807), and Thomas Todd (1807).[153] Jefferson strongly felt the need for a national military university, producing an officer engineering corps for a national defense based on the advancement of the sciences, rather than having to rely on foreign sources for top grade engineers with questionable loyalty.[154] He signed the Military Peace Establishment Act on March 16, 1802, thus founding the United States Military Academy at West Point. The Act documented in 29 sections a new set of laws and limits for the military. Jefferson was also hoping to bring reform to the Executive branch, replacing Federalists and active opponents throughout the officer corps to promote Republican values.[155] Jefferson took great interest in the Library of Congress, which had been established in 1800. He often recommended books to acquire. In 1802, an act of Congress authorized President Jefferson to name the first Librarian of Congress and gave itself the power to establish library rules and regulations. This act also granted the president and vice president the right to use the library.[156] First Barbary War Main article: First Barbary War Barbary Coast of North Africa 1806. Left is Morocco at Gibraltar, center is Tunis, and right is Tripoli. American merchant ships had been protected from Barbary Coast pirates by the Royal Navy when the states were British colonies.[157] After independence, however, pirates often captured U.S. merchant ships, pillaged cargoes, and enslaved or held crew members for ransom. Jefferson had opposed paying tribute to the Barbary States since 1785.[158] In March 1786, he and John Adams went to London to negotiate with Tripoli's envoy, ambassador Sidi Haji Abdrahaman (or Sidi Haji Abdul Rahman Adja).[159] In 1801, he authorized a U.S. Navy fleet under Commodore Richard Dale to make a show of force in the Mediterranean, the first American naval squadron to cross the Atlantic.[160] Following the fleet's first engagement, he successfully asked Congress for a declaration of war.[160] The subsequent "First Barbary War" was the first foreign war fought by the U.S.[161] The Treaty of Peace and Friendship between the United States of America and the Bey and Subjects of Ottoman Tripolitania, known popularly as the Treaty of Tripoli, handwritten in Arabic with Maghrebi script, signed November 4, 1796.[162] Pasha of Tripoli Yusuf Karamanli captured the USS Philadelphia, so Jefferson authorized William Eaton, the U.S. Consul to Tunis, to lead a force to restore the pasha's older brother to the throne.[163] The American navy forced Tunis and Algiers into breaking their alliance with Tripoli. Jefferson ordered five separate naval bombardments of Tripoli, leading the pasha to sign a treaty that restored peace in the Mediterranean.[164] This victory proved only temporary, but according to Wood, "many Americans celebrated it as a vindication of their policy of spreading free trade around the world and as a great victory for liberty over tyranny."[165] Louisiana Purchase Main article: Louisiana Purchase The 1803 Louisiana Purchase totaled 827,987 square miles (2,144,480 square kilometres), doubling the size of the United States. Spain ceded ownership of the Louisiana territory in 1800 to the more predominant France. Jefferson was greatly concerned that Napoleon's broad interests in the vast territory would threaten the security of the continent and Mississippi River shipping. He wrote that the cession "works most sorely on the U.S. It completely reverses all the political relations of the U.S."[166] In 1802, he instructed James Monroe and Robert R. Livingston to negotiate with Napoleon to purchase New Orleans and adjacent coastal areas from France.[167] In early 1803, Jefferson offered Napoleon nearly $10 million for 40,000 square miles (100,000 square kilometres) of tropical territory.[168] Napoleon realized that French military control was impractical over such a vast remote territory, and he was in dire need of funds for his wars on the home front. In early April 1803, he unexpectedly made negotiators a counter-offer to sell 827,987 square miles (2,144,480 square kilometres) of French territory for $15 million, doubling the size of the United States.[168] U.S. negotiators seized this unique opportunity and accepted the offer and signed the treaty on April 30, 1803.[146] Word of the unexpected purchase didn't reach Jefferson until July 3, 1803.[146] He unknowingly acquired the most fertile tract of land of its size on Earth, making the new country self-sufficient in food and other resources. The sale also significantly curtailed British and French imperial ambitions in North America, removing obstacles to U.S. westward expansion.[169] Most thought that this was an exceptional opportunity, despite Republican reservations about the Constitutional authority of the federal government to acquire land.[170] Jefferson initially thought that a Constitutional amendment was necessary to purchase and govern the new territory; but he later changed his mind, fearing that this would give cause to oppose the purchase, and he, therefore, urged a speedy debate and ratification.[171] On October 20, 1803, the Senate ratified the purchase treaty by a vote of 24–7.[172] After the purchase, Jefferson preserved the region's Spanish legal code and instituted a gradual approach for integrating settlers into American democracy. He believed that a period of federal rule would be necessary while Louisianians adjusted to their new nation.[173][k] Historians have differed in their assessments regarding the constitutional implications of the sale,[175] but they typically hail the Louisiana acquisition as a major accomplishment. Frederick Jackson Turner called the purchase the most formative event in American history.[169] Lewis and Clark expedition Main articles: Lewis and Clark Expedition, Red River Expedition (1806), and Pike expedition Corps of Discovery, October 1805 Jefferson anticipated further westward settlements due to the Louisiana Purchase and arranged for the exploration and mapping of the uncharted territory. He sought to establish a U.S. claim ahead of competing European interests and to find the rumored Northwest Passage.[176] Jefferson and others were influenced by exploration accounts of Le Page du Pratz in Louisiana (1763) and Captain James Cook in the Pacific (1784),[177] and they persuaded Congress in 1804 to fund an expedition to explore and map the newly acquired territory to the Pacific Ocean.[178] Jefferson appointed Meriwether Lewis and William Clark to be leaders of the Corps of Discovery (1803–1806).[179] In the months leading up to the expedition, Jefferson tutored Lewis in the sciences of mapping, botany, natural history, mineralogy, and astronomy and navigation, giving him unlimited access to his library at Monticello, which included the largest collection of books in the world on the subject of the geography and natural history of the North American continent, along with an impressive collection of maps.[180] The expedition lasted from May 1804 to September 1806 (see Timeline) and obtained a wealth of scientific and geographic knowledge, including knowledge of many Indian tribes.[181] Other expeditions Main articles: Red River Expedition (1806) and Pike expedition In addition to the Corps of Discovery, Jefferson organized three other western expeditions: the William Dunbar and George Hunter expedition on the Ouachita River (1804–1805), the Thomas Freeman and Peter Custis expedition (1806) on the Red River, and the Zebulon Pike expedition (1806–1807) into the Rocky Mountains and the Southwest. All three produced valuable information about the American frontier.[182] American Indian policies Main article: Thomas Jefferson and Native Americans Black Hoof, leader of the Shawnee, accepted Jefferson's Indian assimilation policies. Jefferson's experiences with the American Indians began during his boyhood in Virginia and extended through his political career and into his retirement. He refuted the contemporary notion that Indians were inferior people and maintained that they were equal in body and mind to people of European descent.[183] As governor of Virginia during the Revolutionary War, Jefferson recommended moving the Cherokee and Shawnee tribes, who had allied with the British, to west of the Mississippi River. But when he took office as president, he quickly took measures to avert another major conflict, as American and Indian societies were in collision and the British were inciting Indian tribes from Canada.[184][185] In Georgia, he stipulated that the state would release its legal claims for lands to its west in exchange for military support in expelling the Cherokee from Georgia. This facilitated his policy of western expansion, to "advance compactly as we multiply".[186] In keeping with his Enlightenment thinking, President Jefferson adopted an assimilation policy towards American Indians known as his "civilization program" which included securing peaceful U.S. – Indian treaty alliances and encouraging agriculture. Jefferson advocated that Indian tribes should make federal purchases by credit holding their lands as collateral for repayment. Various tribes accepted Jefferson's policies, including the Shawnees led by Black Hoof, the Creek, and the Cherokees. However, some Shawnees broke off from Black Hoof, led by Tecumseh, and opposed Jefferson's assimilation policies.[187] Historian Bernard Sheehan argues that Jefferson believed that assimilation was best for American Indians; second best was removal to the west. He felt that the worst outcome of the cultural and resources conflict between American citizens and American Indians would be their attacking the whites.[185] Jefferson told Secretary of War General Henry Dearborn (Indian affairs were then under the War Department), "If we are constrained to lift the hatchet against any tribe, we will never lay it down until that tribe is exterminated or driven beyond the Mississippi."[188] Miller agrees that Jefferson believed that Indians should assimilate to American customs and agriculture. Historians such as Peter S. Onuf and Merrill D. Peterson argue that Jefferson's actual Indian policies did little to promote assimilation and were a pretext to seize lands.[189] Re-election in 1804 and second term Further information: United States presidential election, 1804 1804 Electoral College vote Jefferson's successful first term occasioned his re-nomination for president by the Republican party, with George Clinton replacing Burr as his running mate.[190] The Federalist party ran Charles Cotesworth Pinckney of South Carolina, John Adams's vice-presidential candidate in the 1800 election. The Jefferson-Clinton ticket won overwhelmingly in the electoral college vote, by 162 to 14, promoting their achievement of a strong economy, lower taxes, and the Louisiana Purchase.[190] In March 1806, a split developed in the Republican party, led by fellow Virginian and former Republican ally John Randolph who viciously accused President Jefferson on the floor of the House of moving too far in the Federalist direction. In so doing, Randolph permanently set himself apart politically from Jefferson. Jefferson and Madison had backed resolutions to limit or ban British imports in retaliation for British actions against American shipping. Also, in 1808, Jefferson was the first president to propose a broad Federal plan to build roads and canals across several states, asking for $20 million, further alarming Randolph and believers of limited government.[191] Jefferson's popularity further suffered in his second term due to his response to wars in Europe. Positive relations with Great Britain had diminished, due partly to the antipathy between Jefferson and British diplomat Anthony Merry. After Napoleon's decisive victory at the Battle of Austerlitz in 1805, Napoleon became more aggressive in his negotiations over trading rights, which American efforts failed to counter. Jefferson then led the enactment of the Embargo Act of 1807, directed at both France and Great Britain. This triggered economic chaos in the U.S. and was strongly criticized at the time, resulting in Jefferson having to abandon the policy a year later.[192] During the revolutionary era, the states abolished the international slave trade, but South Carolina reopened it. In his annual message of December 1806, Jefferson denounced the "violations of human rights" attending the international slave trade, calling on the newly elected Congress to criminalize it immediately. In 1807, Congress passed the Act Prohibiting Importation of Slaves, which Jefferson signed.[193][194] The act established severe punishment against the international slave trade, although it did not address the issue domestically.[195] In the wake of the Louisiana Purchase, Jefferson sought to annex Florida from Spain, as brokered by Napoleon.[196] Congress agreed to the president's request to secretly appropriate purchase money in the "$2,000,000 Bill".[196] The Congressional funding drew criticism from Randolph, who believed that the money would wind up in the coffers of Napoleon. The bill was signed into law; however, negotiations for the project failed. Jefferson lost clout among fellow Republicans, and his use of unofficial Congressional channels was sharply criticized.[196] In Haiti, Jefferson's neutrality had allowed arms to enable the slave independence movement during its Revolution, and blocked attempts to assist Napoleon, who was defeated there in 1803.[197] But he refused official recognition of the country during his second term, in deference to southern complaints about the racial violence against slave-holders; it was eventually extended to Haiti in 1862.[198] Domestically, Jefferson's grandson James Madison Randolph became the first child born in the White House in 1806.[199] Burr conspiracy and trial Further information: Burr–Hamilton duel and Burr conspiracy Aaron Burr Vanderlyn, 1802 Following the 1801 electoral deadlock, Jefferson's relationship with his vice president, former New York Senator Aaron Burr, rapidly eroded. Jefferson suspected Burr of seeking the presidency for himself, while Burr was angered by Jefferson's refusal to appoint some of his supporters to federal office. Burr was dropped from the Republican ticket in 1804. The same year, Burr was soundly defeated in his bid to be elected New York governor. During the campaign, Alexander Hamilton publicly made callous remarks regarding Burr's moral character.[200] Subsequently, Burr challenged Hamilton to a duel, mortally wounding him on July 11, 1804. Burr was indicted for Hamilton's murder in New York and New Jersey, causing him to flee to Georgia, although he remained President of the Senate during Supreme Court Justice Samuel Chase's impeachment trial.[201] Both indictments quietly died and Burr was not prosecuted.[202] Also during the election, certain New England separatists approached Burr, desiring a New England federation and intimating that he would be their leader.[203] However, nothing came of the plot, since Burr had lost the election and his reputation was ruined after killing Hamilton.[203] In August 1804, Burr contacted British Minister Anthony Merry offering to capture U.S. western territory in return for money and British ships.[204] After leaving office in April 1805, Burr traveled west and conspired with Louisiana Territory governor James Wilkinson, beginning a large-scale recruitment for a military expedition.[205] Other plotters included Ohio Senator John Smith and an Irishman named Harmon Blennerhassett.[205] Burr discussed a number of plots—seizing control of Mexico or Spanish Florida, or forming a secessionist state in New Orleans or the Western U.S. Historians remain unclear as to his true goal.[206][l] In the fall of 1806, Burr launched a military flotilla carrying about 60 men down the Ohio River. Wilkinson renounced the plot, apparently from self-interested motives; he reported Burr's expedition to Jefferson, who immediately ordered Burr's arrest.[205][208][209] On February 13, 1807, Burr was captured in Louisiana's Bayou Pierre wilderness and sent to Virginia to be tried for treason.[204] Burr's 1807 conspiracy trial became a national issue.[210] Jefferson attempted to preemptively influence the verdict by telling Congress that Burr's guilt was "beyond question", but the case came before his longtime political foe John Marshall, who dismissed the treason charge. Burr's legal team at one stage subpoenaed Jefferson, but Jefferson refused to testify, making the first argument for executive privilege. Instead, Jefferson provided relevant legal documents.[211] After a three-month trial, the jury found Burr not guilty, while Jefferson denounced his acquittal.[212][213][m][214] Jefferson subsequently removed Wilkinson as territorial governor but retained him in the U.S. military. Historian James N. Banner criticized Jefferson for continuing to trust Wilkinson, a "faithless plotter".[209] Chesapeake–Leopard affair and Embargo Act Main article: Chesapeake–Leopard affair HMS Leopard (right) firing upon USS Chesapeake The British conducted raids on American shipping and kidnapped seamen in 1806–07; thousands of Americans were thus impressed into the British naval service. In 1806, Jefferson issued a call for a boycott of British goods; on April 18, Congress passed the Non-Importation Acts, but they were never enforced. Later that year, Jefferson asked James Monroe and William Pinkney to negotiate with Great Britain to end the harassment of American shipping, though Britain showed no signs of improving relations. The Monroe–Pinkney Treaty was finalized but lacked any provisions to end impressment, and Jefferson refused to submit it to the Senate for ratification.[215] The British ship HMS Leopard fired upon the USS Chesapeake off the Virginia coast in June 1807, and Jefferson prepared for war.[216] He issued a proclamation banning armed British ships from U.S. waters. He presumed unilateral authority to call on the states to prepare 100,000 militia and ordered the purchase of arms, ammunition, and supplies, writing, "The laws of necessity, of self-preservation, of saving our country when in danger, are of higher obligation [than strict observance of written laws]". The USS Revenge was dispatched to demand an explanation from the British government; it also was fired upon. Jefferson called for a special session of Congress in October to enact an embargo or alternatively to consider war.[217] In December, news arrived that Napoleon had extended the Berlin Decree, globally banning British imports. In Britain, King George III ordered redoubling efforts at impressment, including American sailors. But the war fever of the summer faded; Congress had no appetite to prepare the U.S. for war. Jefferson asked for and received the Embargo Act, an alternative that allowed the U.S. more time to build up defensive works, militias, and naval forces. Later historians have seen irony in Jefferson's assertion of such federal power. Meacham claims that the Embargo Act was a projection of power which surpassed the Alien and Sedition Acts, and R. B. Bernstein writes that Jefferson "was pursuing policies resembling those he had cited in 1776 as grounds for independence and revolution".[218] A political cartoon showing merchants dodging the "Ograbme", which is "Embargo" spelled backwards (1807) Secretary of State James Madison supported the embargo with equal vigor to Jefferson,[219] while Treasury Secretary Gallatin opposed it, due to its indefinite time frame and the risk that it posed to the policy of American neutrality.[220] The U.S. economy suffered, criticism grew, and opponents began evading the embargo. Instead of retreating, Jefferson sent federal agents to secretly track down smugglers and violators.[221] Three acts were passed in Congress during 1807 and 1808, called the Supplementary, the Additional, and the Enforcement acts.[216] The government could not prevent American vessels from trading with the European belligerents once they had left American ports, although the embargo triggered a devastating decline in exports.[216] Most historians consider Jefferson's embargo to have been ineffective and harmful to American interests.[222] Appleby describes the strategy as Jefferson's "least effective policy", and Joseph Ellis calls it "an unadulterated calamity".[223] Others, however, portray it as an innovative, nonviolent measure which aided France in its war with Britain while preserving American neutrality.[224] Jefferson believed that the failure of the embargo was due to selfish traders and merchants showing a lack of "republican virtue." He maintained that, had the embargo been widely observed, it would have avoided war in 1812.[225] In December 1807, Jefferson announced his intention not to seek a third term. He turned his attention increasingly to Monticello during the last year of his presidency, giving Madison and Gallatin almost total control of affairs.[226] Shortly before leaving office in March 1809, Jefferson signed the repeal of the Embargo. In its place, the Non-Intercourse Act was passed, but it proved no more effective.[216] The day before Madison was inaugurated as his successor, Jefferson said that he felt like "a prisoner, released from his chains".[227] Post-presidency (1809–1826) Further information: Thomas Jefferson and education Following his retirement from the presidency, Jefferson continued his pursuit of educational interests; he sold his vast collection of books to the Library of Congress, and founded and built the University of Virginia.[228] Jefferson continued to correspond with many of the country's leaders, and the Monroe Doctrine bears a strong resemblance to solicited advice that Jefferson gave to Monroe in 1823.[229] As he settled into private life at Monticello, Jefferson developed a daily routine of rising early. He would spend several hours writing letters, with which he was often deluged. In the midday, he would often inspect the plantation on horseback. In the evenings, his family enjoyed leisure time in the gardens; late at night, Jefferson would retire to bed with a book.[230] However, his routine was often interrupted by uninvited visitors and tourists eager to see the icon in his final days, turning Monticello into "a virtual hotel".[231] University of Virginia Main article: University of Virginia The University of Virginia, Jefferson's "Academical Village" Jefferson envisioned a university free of church influences where students could specialize in many new areas not offered at other colleges. He believed that education engendered a stable society, which should provide publicly funded schools accessible to students from all social strata, based solely on ability.[232] He initially proposed his University in a letter to Joseph Priestley in 1800[233] and, in 1819, the 76-year-old Jefferson founded the University of Virginia. He organized the state legislative campaign for its charter and, with the assistance of Edmund Bacon, purchased the location. He was the principal designer of the buildings, planned the university's curriculum, and served as the first rector upon its opening in 1825.[234] Jefferson was a strong disciple of Greek and Roman architectural styles, which he believed to be most representative of American democracy. Each academic unit, called a pavilion, was designed with a two-story temple front, while the library "Rotunda" was modeled on the Roman Pantheon. Jefferson referred to the university's grounds as the "Academical Village," and he reflected his educational ideas in its layout. The ten pavilions included classrooms and faculty residences; they formed a quadrangle and were connected by colonnades, behind which stood the students' rows of rooms. Gardens and vegetable plots were placed behind the pavilions and were surrounded by serpentine walls, affirming the importance of the agrarian lifestyle.[235] The university had a library rather than a church at its center, emphasizing its secular nature—a controversial aspect at the time.[236] When Jefferson died in 1826, James Madison replaced him as rector.[237] Jefferson bequeathed most of his library to the university.[238] Reconciliation with Adams In 1804, Abigail Adams attempted to reconcile Jefferson and Adams. Jefferson and John Adams had been good friends in the first decades of their political careers, serving together in the Continental Congress in the 1770s and in Europe in the 1780s. The Federalist/Republican split of the 1790s divided them, however, and Adams felt betrayed by Jefferson's sponsorship of partisan attacks, such as those of James Callender. Jefferson, on the other hand, was angered at Adams for his appointment of "midnight judges".[239] The two men did not communicate directly for more than a decade after Jefferson succeeded Adams as president.[240] A brief correspondence took place between Abigail Adams and Jefferson after Jefferson's daughter "Polly" died in 1804, in an attempt at reconciliation unknown to Adams. However, an exchange of letters resumed open hostilities between Adams and Jefferson.[239] As early as 1809, Benjamin Rush, signer of the Declaration of Independence, desired that Jefferson and Adams reconcile and began to prod the two through correspondence to re-establish contact.[239] In 1812, Adams wrote a short New Year's greeting to Jefferson, prompted earlier by Rush, to which Jefferson warmly responded. Thus began what historian David McCullough calls "one of the most extraordinary correspondences in American history".[241] Over the next fourteen years, the former presidents exchanged 158 letters discussing their political differences, justifying their respective roles in events, and debating the revolution's import to the world.[242] When Adams died, his last words included an acknowledgment of his longtime friend and rival: "Thomas Jefferson survives", unaware that Jefferson had died several hours before.[243][244] Autobiography In 1821, at the age of 77, Jefferson began writing his autobiography, in order to "state some recollections of dates and facts concerning myself".[245] He focused on the struggles and achievements he experienced until July 29, 1790, where the narrative stopped short.[246] He excluded his youth, emphasizing the revolutionary era. He related that his ancestors came from Wales to America in the early 17th century and settled in the western frontier of the Virginia colony, which influenced his zeal for individual and state rights. Jefferson described his father as uneducated, but with a "strong mind and sound judgement". His enrollment in the College of William and Mary and election to the Continental Congress in Philadelphia in 1775 were included.[245] He also expressed opposition to the idea of a privileged aristocracy made up of large landowning families partial to the King, and instead promoted "the aristocracy of virtue and talent, which nature has wisely provided for the direction of the interests of society, & scattered with equal hand through all its conditions, was deemed essential to a well-ordered republic".[245] Jefferson gave his insight about people, politics, and events.[245] The work is primarily concerned with the Declaration and reforming the government of Virginia. He used notes, letters, and documents to tell many of the stories within the autobiography. He suggested that this history was so rich that his personal affairs were better overlooked, but he incorporated a self-analysis using the Declaration and other patriotism.[247] Lafayette's visit Main article: Visit of the Marquis de Lafayette to the United States Lafayette in 1824, portrait by Scheffer, hanging in U.S. House of Representatives In the summer of 1824, the Marquis de Lafayette accepted an invitation from President James Monroe to visit the country. Jefferson and Lafayette had not seen each other since 1789. After visits to New York, New England, and Washington, Lafayette arrived at Monticello on November 4.[234] Jefferson's grandson Randolph was present and recorded the reunion: "As they approached each other, their uncertain gait quickened itself into a shuffling run, and exclaiming, 'Ah Jefferson!' 'Ah Lafayette!', they burst into tears as they fell into each other's arms." Jefferson and Lafayette then retired to the house to reminisce.[248] The next morning Jefferson, Lafayette, and James Madison attended a tour and banquet at the University of Virginia. Jefferson had someone else read a speech he had prepared for Lafayette, as his voice was weak and could not carry. This was his last public presentation. After an 11-day visit, Lafayette bid Jefferson goodbye and departed Monticello.[249] Final days, death, and burial Jefferson's gravesite Jefferson's approximately $100,000 of debt weighed heavily on his mind in his final months, as it became increasingly clear that he would have little to leave to his heirs. In February 1826, he successfully applied to the General Assembly to hold a public lottery as a fundraiser.[250] His health began to deteriorate in July 1825, due to a combination of rheumatism from arm and wrist injuries, as well as intestinal and urinary disorders[234] and, by June 1826, he was confined to bed.[250] On July 3, Jefferson was overcome by fever and declined an invitation to Washington to attend an anniversary celebration of the Declaration.[251] During the last hours of his life, he was accompanied by family members and friends. Jefferson died on July 4 at 12:50 p.m. at age 83, the same day as the 50th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence. His last recorded words were "No, doctor, nothing more," refusing laudanum from his physician, but his final significant words are often cited as "Is it the Fourth?" or "This is the Fourth."[252] When John Adams died, his last words included an acknowledgment of his longtime friend and rival: "Thomas Jefferson survives," though Adams was unaware that Jefferson had died several hours before.[253][254][255][256] The sitting president was Adams's son, John Quincy Adams, and he called the coincidence of their deaths on the nation's anniversary "visible and palpable remarks of Divine Favor."[257] Shortly after Jefferson had died, attendants found a gold locket on a chain around his neck, where it had rested for more than 40 years, containing a small faded blue ribbon which tied a lock of his wife Martha's brown hair.[258] Jefferson's remains were buried at Monticello, under an epitaph that he wrote: HERE WAS BURIED THOMAS JEFFERSON, AUTHOR OF THE DECLARATION OF AMERICAN INDEPENDENCE, OF THE STATUTE OF VIRGINIA FOR RELIGIOUS FREEDOM, AND FATHER OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA.[259] In his advanced years, Jefferson became increasingly concerned that people understand the principles in and the people responsible for writing the Declaration of Independence, and he continually defended himself as its author. He considered the document one of his greatest life achievements, in addition to authoring the Statute of Virginia for Religious Freedom and his founding of the University of Virginia. Plainly absent from his epitaph were his political roles, including President of the United States.[260] Jefferson died deeply in debt, unable to pass on his estate freely to his heirs.[261] He gave instructions in his will for disposal of his assets,[262] including the freeing of Sally Hemings's children;[263] but his estate, possessions, and slaves were sold at public auctions starting in 1827.[264] In 1831, Monticello was sold by Martha Jefferson Randolph and the other heirs.[265] Political, social and religious views Jefferson subscribed to the political ideals expounded by John Locke, Francis Bacon, and Isaac Newton, whom he considered the three greatest men who ever lived.[266][267] He was also influenced by the writings of Gibbon, Hume, Robertson, Bolingbroke, Montesquieu, and Voltaire.[268] Jefferson thought that the independent yeoman and agrarian life were ideals of republican virtues. He distrusted cities and financiers, favored decentralized government power, and believed that the tyranny that had plagued the common man in Europe was due to corrupt political establishments and monarchies. He supported efforts to disestablish the Church of England[269] wrote the Virginia Statute for Religious Freedom, and he pressed for a wall of separation between church and state.[270] The Republicans under Jefferson were strongly influenced by the 18th-century British Whig Party, which believed in limited government.[271] His Democratic-Republican Party became dominant in early American politics, and his views became known as Jeffersonian democracy.[272][273] Society and government According to Jefferson's philosophy, citizens have "certain inalienable rights" and "rightful liberty is unobstructed action according to our will, within limits drawn around us by the equal rights of others."[274] A staunch advocate of the jury system to protect people's liberties, he proclaimed in 1801, "I consider [trial by jury] as the only anchor yet imagined by man, by which a government can be held to the principles of its constitution."[275] Jeffersonian government not only prohibited individuals in society from infringing on the liberty of others, but also restrained itself from diminishing individual liberty as a protection against tyranny from the majority.[276] Initially, Jefferson favored restricted voting to those who could actually have the free exercise of their reason by escaping any corrupting dependence on others. He advocated enfranchising a majority of Virginians, seeking to expand suffrage to include "yeoman farmers" who owned their own land while excluding tenant farmers, city day laborers, vagrants, most Amerindians, and women.[277] He was convinced that individual liberties were the fruit of political equality, which were threatened by arbitrary government.[278] Excesses of democracy in his view were caused by institutional corruption rather than human nature. He was less suspicious of a working democracy than many contemporaries.[277] As president, Jefferson feared that the Federalist system enacted by Washington and Adams had encouraged corrupting patronage and dependence. He tried to restore a balance between the state and federal governments more nearly reflecting the Articles of Confederation, seeking to reinforce state prerogatives where his party was in a majority.[277] Jefferson was steeped in the British Whig tradition of the oppressed majority set against a repeatedly unresponsive court party in the Parliament. He justified small outbreaks of rebellion as necessary to get monarchial regimes to amend oppressive measures compromising popular liberties. In a republican regime ruled by the majority, he acknowledged "it will often be exercised when wrong."[279] But "the remedy is to set them right as to facts, pardon and pacify them."[280] As Jefferson saw his party triumph in two terms of his presidency and launch into a third term under James Madison, his view of the U.S. as a continental republic and an "empire of liberty" grew more upbeat. On departing the presidency in 1809, he described America as "trusted with the destines of this solitary republic of the world, the only monument of human rights, and the sole depository of the sacred fire of freedom and self-government."[281] Democracy Thomas Jefferson at age 78. Portrait by Thomas Sully hanging at West Point, commissioned by Faculty and Cadets, 1821. Jefferson considered democracy to be the expression of society and promoted national self-determination, cultural uniformity, and education of all males of the commonwealth.[282] He supported public education and a free press as essential components of a democratic nation.[283] After resigning as Secretary of State in 1795, Jefferson focused on the electoral bases of the Republicans and Federalists. The "Republican" classification for which he advocated included "the entire body of landholders" everywhere and "the body of laborers" without land.[284] Republicans united behind Jefferson as vice president, with the election of 1796 expanding democracy nationwide at grassroots levels.[285] Jefferson promoted Republican candidates for local offices.[286] Beginning with Jefferson's electioneering for the "revolution of 1800," his political efforts were based on egalitarian appeals.[287] In his later years, he referred to the 1800 election "as real a revolution in the principles of our government as that of '76 was in its form," one "not effected indeed by the sword ... but by the ... suffrage of the people."[288] Voter participation grew during Jefferson's presidency, increasing to "unimaginable levels" compared to the Federalist Era, with turnout of about 67,000 in 1800 rising to about 143,000 in 1804.[289] At the onset of the Revolution, Jefferson accepted William Blackstone's argument that property ownership would sufficiently empower voters' independent judgement, but he sought to further expand suffrage by land distribution to the poor.[290] In the heat of the Revolutionary Era and afterward, several states expanded voter eligibility from landed gentry to all propertied male, tax-paying citizens with Jefferson's support.[291] In retirement, he gradually became critical of his home state for violating "the principle of equal political rights"—the social right of universal male suffrage.[292] He sought a "general suffrage" of all taxpayers and militia-men, and equal representation by population in the General Assembly to correct preferential treatment of the slave-holding regions.[293] Religion Main article: Religious views of Thomas Jefferson The Jefferson Bible featuring only the words of Jesus from the evangelists, in parallel Greek, Latin, French and English Baptized in his youth, Jefferson became a governing member of his local Episcopal Church in Charlottesville, which he later attended with his daughters.[294] Influenced by Deist authors during his college years, Jefferson abandoned "orthodox" Christianity after his review of New Testament teachings.[295][296] In 1803 he asserted, "I am Christian, in the only sense in which [Jesus] wished any one to be."[194] Jefferson later defined being a Christian as one who followed the simple teachings of Jesus. Jefferson compiled Jesus' biblical teachings, omitting miraculous or supernatural references. He titled the work The Life and Morals of Jesus of Nazareth, known today as the Jefferson Bible.[297] Peterson states Jefferson was a theist "whose God was the Creator of the universe ... all the evidences of nature testified to His perfection; and man could rely on the harmony and beneficence of His work."[298] Jefferson was firmly anticlerical, writing in "every age, the priest has been hostile to liberty ... they have perverted the purest religion ever preached to man into mystery and jargon."[299] The full letter to Horatio Spatford can be read at the National Archives.[300] Jefferson once supported banning clergy from public office but later relented.[301] In 1777, he drafted the Virginia Statute for Religious Freedom. Ratified in 1786, it made compelling attendance or contributions to any state-sanctioned religious establishment illegal and declared that men "shall be free to profess ... their opinions in matters of religion."[302] The Statute is one of only three accomplishments he chose to have inscribed in the epitaph on his gravestone.[303][304] Early in 1802, Jefferson wrote to the Danbury Connecticut Baptist Association, "that religion is a matter which lies solely between Man and his God." He interpreted the First Amendment as having built "a wall of separation between Church and State."[305] The phrase 'Separation of Church and State' has been cited several times by the Supreme Court in its interpretation of the Establishment Clause. Jefferson donated to the American Bible Society, saying the Four Evangelists delivered a "pure and sublime system of morality" to humanity. He thought Americans would rationally create "Apiarian" religion, extracting the best traditions of every denomination.[306] And he contributed generously to several local denominations near Monticello.[307] Acknowledging organized religion would always be factored into political life for good or ill, he encouraged reason over supernatural revelation to make inquiries into religion. He believed in a creator god, an afterlife, and the sum of religion as loving God and neighbors. But he also controversially renounced the conventional Christian Trinity, denying Jesus' divinity as the Son of God.[308][309] Jefferson's unorthodox religious beliefs became an important issue in the 1800 presidential election.[310] Federalists attacked him as an atheist. As president, Jefferson countered the accusations by praising religion in his inaugural address and attending services at the Capitol.[310] Banks Alexander Hamilton, national bank proponent and Jefferson's adversary Jefferson distrusted government banks and opposed public borrowing, which he thought created long-term debt, bred monopolies, and invited dangerous speculation as opposed to productive labor.[311] In one letter to Madison, he argued each generation should curtail all debt within 19 years, and not impose a long-term debt on subsequent generations.[312] In 1791, President Washington asked Jefferson, then Secretary of State, and Hamilton, the Secretary of the Treasury, if the Congress had the authority to create a national bank. While Hamilton believed Congress had the authority, Jefferson and Madison thought a national bank would ignore the needs of individuals and farmers, and would violate the Tenth Amendment by assuming powers not granted to the federal government by the states.[313] Jefferson used agrarian resistance to banks and speculators as the first defining principle of an opposition party, recruiting candidates for Congress on the issue as early as 1792.[314] As president, Jefferson was persuaded by Secretary of Treasury Albert Gallatin to leave the bank intact, but sought to restrain its influence.[315][n] Slavery Main article: Thomas Jefferson and slavery Jefferson's 1795 Farm Book, page 30, lists 163 slaves at Monticello. Jefferson lived in a planter economy largely dependent upon slavery, and as a wealthy landholder, used slave labor for his household, plantation, and workshops. He first recorded his slaveholding in 1774, when he counted 41.[317] Over his lifetime he owned about 600 slaves; he inherited about 175 while most of the remainder were born on his plantations.[318] Jefferson purchased slaves in order to unite their families, and he sold about 110 for economic reasons, primarily slaves from his outlying farms.[318][319] Many historians have described Jefferson as a benevolent slaveowner[320] who didn't overwork his slaves by the conventions of his time, and provided them log cabins with fireplaces, food, clothing and some household provisions, though slaves often had to make many of their own provisions. Additionally, Jefferson gave his slaves financial and other incentives while also allowing them to grow gardens and raise their own chickens. The whip was employed only in rare and extreme cases of fighting and stealing.[318][321] Jefferson once said, "My first wish is that the labourers may be well treated".[318] Jefferson did not work his slaves on Sundays and Christmas and he allowed them more personal time during the winter months.[322] Some scholars doubt Jefferson's benevolence,[323] however, noting cases of excessive slave whippings in his absence. His nail factory was only staffed by child slaves, but many of those boys became tradesmen. Burwell Colbert, who started his working life as a child in Monticello's Nailery, was later promoted to the supervisory position of butler.[324] Jefferson felt slavery was harmful to both slave and master, but had reservations about releasing unprepared slaves into freedom and advocated gradual emancipation.[325][326][327] In 1779, he proposed gradual voluntary training and resettlement to the Virginia legislature, and three years later drafted legislation allowing owners to free their own slaves.[328] In his draft of the Declaration of Independence, he included a section, stricken by other Southern delegates, criticizing King George III's role in promoting slavery in the colonies.[329] In 1784, Jefferson proposed the abolition of slavery in all western U.S. territories, limiting slave importation to 15 years.[330] Congress, however, failed to pass his proposal by one vote.[330] In 1787, Congress passed the Northwest Ordinance, a partial victory for Jefferson that terminated slavery in the Northwest Territory. Jefferson freed his slave Robert Hemings in 1794 and he freed his cook slave James Hemings in 1796.[331] During his presidency Jefferson allowed the diffusion of slavery into the Louisiana Territory hoping to prevent slave uprisings in Virginia and to prevent South Carolina secession.[332] In 1804, in a compromise on the slavery issue, Jefferson and Congress banned domestic slave trafficking for one year into the Louisiana Territory.[333] In 1806 he officially called for anti-slavery legislation terminating the import or export of slaves. Congress passed the law in 1807.[325][334][335] In 1819, he strongly opposed a Missouri statehood application amendment that banned domestic slave importation and freed slaves at the age of 25 on grounds it would destroy the union.[336] Jefferson freed his runaway slave Harriet Hemings in 1822.[337] Upon his death in 1826, Jefferson freed five male Hemings slaves in his will.[338] Jefferson shared the 'common belief' of his day[according to whom?] that blacks were mentally and physically inferior, but argued they nonetheless had innate human rights.[325][339] In Notes on the State of Virginia, he created controversy by calling slavery a moral evil for which the nation would ultimately have to account to God.[340] He therefore supported colonization plans that would transport freed slaves to another country, such as Liberia or Sierra Leone, though he recognized the impracticability of such proposals.[341] During his presidency, Jefferson was for the most part publicly silent on the issue of slavery and emancipation,[342] as the Congressional debate over slavery and its extension caused a dangerous north–south rift among the states, with talk of a northern confederacy in New England.[343][o] The violent attacks on white slave owners during the Haitian Revolution due to injustices under slavery supported Jefferson's fears of a race war, increasing his reservations about promoting emancipation at that time.[325][344] After numerous attempts and failures to bring about emancipation,[345] Jefferson wrote privately in an 1805 letter to William A. Burwell, "I have long since given up the expectation of any early provision for the extinguishment of slavery among us." That same year he also related this idea to George Logan, writing, "I have most carefully avoided every public act or manifestation on that subject."[346] Historical assessment Scholars remain divided on whether Jefferson truly condemned slavery and how he changed.[337][347] Francis D. Cogliano traces the development of competing emancipationist then revisionist and finally contextualist interpretations from the 1960s to the present. The emancipationist view, held by the various scholars at the Thomas Jefferson Foundation, Douglas L. Wilson, and others, maintains Jefferson was an opponent of slavery all his life, noting that he did what he could within the limited range of options available to him to undermine it, his many attempts at abolition legislation, the manner in which he provided for slaves, and his advocacy of their more humane treatment.[321][348][349][p] The revisionist view, advanced by Paul Finkelman and others, criticizes Jefferson for racism, for holding slaves, and for acting contrary to his words. Jefferson never freed most of his slaves, and he remained silent on the issue while he was president.[342][350] Contextualists such as Joseph J. Ellis emphasize a change in Jefferson's thinking from his emancipationist views before 1783, noting Jefferson's shift toward public passivity and procrastination on policy issues related to slavery. Jefferson seemed to yield to public opinion by 1794 as he laid the groundwork for his first presidential campaign against Adams in 1796.[351] Jefferson–Hemings controversy Main article: Jefferson–Hemings controversy Claims that Jefferson fathered Sally Hemings's children have been debated since 1802. That year James T. Callender, after being denied a position as postmaster, alleged Jefferson had taken Hemings as a concubine and fathered several children with her.[352] In 1998, a panel of researchers conducted a Y-DNA study of living descendants of Jefferson's uncle, Field, and of a descendant of Hemings's son, Eston Hemings. The results, published in the journal Nature, showed a match with the male Jefferson line.[353] In 2000, the Thomas Jefferson Foundation (TJF) assembled a team of historians whose report concluded that "the DNA study ... indicates a high probability that Thomas Jefferson fathered Eston Hemings."[354][q] In July 2017 the Thomas Jefferson Foundation announced that archeological excavations at Monticello had revealed what they believe to have been Sally Hemings's quarters, adjacent to Jefferson's bedroom.[356][357] The Thomas Jefferson Foundation stated in 2018 that it considered the issue "a settled historical matter."[358] Since the results of the DNA tests were made public, the consensus among academic historians has been that Jefferson had a sexual relationship with Sally Hemings and that he was the father of her son Eston Hemings, though some experts dispute this conclusion.[359] Some scholars maintain the evidence is insufficient to prove Jefferson's paternity conclusively. Based on DNA and other evidence, they note the possibility that additional Jefferson males, including his brother Randolph Jefferson and any one of Randolph's four sons, or his cousin, could have fathered Eston Hemings or Sally Hemings's other children.[360] After Thomas Jefferson's death, although not formally manumitted, Sally Hemings was allowed by Jefferson's daughter Martha to live in Charlottesville as a free woman with her two sons until her death in 1835.[361][r] Interests and activities Virginia State Capitol, designed by Jefferson (wings added later) Jefferson was a farmer, obsessed with new crops, soil conditions, garden designs, and scientific agricultural techniques. His main cash crop was tobacco, but its price was usually low and it was rarely profitable. He tried to achieve self-sufficiency with wheat, vegetables, flax, corn, hogs, sheep, poultry, and cattle to supply his family, slaves, and employees, but he lived perpetually beyond his means[363] and was always in debt.[364] In the field of architecture, Jefferson helped popularize the Neo-Palladian style in the United States utilizing designs for the Virginia State Capitol, the University of Virginia, Monticello, and others.[365] Jefferson mastered architecture through self-study, using various books and classical architectural designs of the day. His primary authority was Andrea Palladio's The Four Books of Architecture, which outlines the principles of classical design.[366] He was interested in birds and wine, and was a noted gourmet; he was also a prolific writer and linguist, and spoke several languages.[367] As a naturalist, he was fascinated by the Natural Bridge geological formation, and in 1774 successfully acquired the Bridge by grant from George III.[368] American Philosophical Society Jefferson was a member of the American Philosophical Society for 35 years, beginning in 1780. Through the society he advanced the sciences and Enlightenment ideals, emphasizing that knowledge of science reinforced and extended freedom.[369] His Notes on the State of Virginia was written in part as a contribution to the society.[370] He became the society's third president on March 3, 1797, a few months after he was elected Vice President of the United States.[370][371] In accepting, Jefferson stated: "I feel no qualification for this distinguished post but a sincere zeal for all the objects of our institution and an ardent desire to see knowledge so disseminated through the mass of mankind that it may at length reach even the extremes of society, beggars and kings."[369] Jefferson served as APS president for the next eighteen years, including through both terms of his presidency.[370] He introduced Meriwether Lewis to the society, where various scientists tutored him in preparation for the Lewis and Clark Expedition.[370][372] He resigned on January 20, 1815, but remained active through correspondence.[373] Linguistics Jefferson had a lifelong interest in linguistics, and could speak, read, and write in a number of languages, including French, Greek, Italian, and German. In his early years, he exceled in classical language while at boarding school[374] where he received a classical education in Greek and Latin.[375] Jefferson later came to regard the Greek language as the "perfect language" as expressed in its laws and philosophy.[376] While attending the College of William & Mary, he taught himself Italian.[377] Here Jefferson first became familiar with the Anglo-Saxon language, especially as it was associated with English Common law and system of government and studied the language in a linguistic and philosophical capacity. He owned 17 volumes of Anglo-Saxon texts and grammar and later wrote an essay on the Anglo-Saxon language.[374] Jefferson claimed to have taught himself Spanish during his nineteen-day journey to France, using only a grammar guide and a copy of Don Quixote.[378] Linguistics played a significant role in how Jefferson modeled and expressed political and philosophical ideas. He believed that the study of ancient languages was essential in understanding the roots of modern language.[379] He collected and understood a number of American Indian vocabularies and instructed Lewis and Clark to record and collect various Indian languages during their Expedition.[380] When Jefferson removed from Washington after his presidency, he packed 50 Native American vocabulary lists in a chest and transported them on a river boat back to Monticello along with the rest of his possessions. Somewhere along the journey, a thief stole the heavy chest, thinking it was full of valuables, but its contents were dumped into the James River when the thief discovered it was only filled with papers. Subsequently, 30 years of collecting were lost, with only a few fragments rescued from the muddy banks of the river.[381] Jefferson was not an outstanding orator and preferred to communicate through writing or remain silent if possible. Instead of delivering his State of the Union addresses himself, Jefferson wrote the annual messages and sent a representative to read them aloud in Congress. This started a tradition which continued until 1913 when President Woodrow Wilson (1913–1921) chose to deliver his own State of the Union address.[382] Inventions Jefferson invented many small practical devices and improved contemporary inventions, including a revolving book-stand and a "Great Clock" powered by the gravitational pull on cannonballs. He improved the pedometer, the polygraph (a device for duplicating writing),[383] and the moldboard plow, an idea he never patented and gave to posterity.[384] Jefferson can also be credited as the creator of the swivel chair, the first of which he created and used to write much of the Declaration of Independence.[385] As Minister to France, Jefferson was impressed by the military standardization program known as the Système Gribeauval, and initiated a program as president to develop interchangeable parts for firearms. For his inventiveness and ingenuity, he received several honorary Doctor of Law degrees.[386] Legacy Historical reputation Jefferson Memorial, Washington, D.C. Jefferson is an icon of individual liberty, democracy, and republicanism, hailed as the author of the Declaration of Independence, an architect of the American Revolution, and a renaissance man who promoted science and scholarship.[387] The participatory democracy and expanded suffrage he championed defined his era and became a standard for later generations.[388] Meacham opined, that Jefferson was the most influential figure of the democratic republic in its first half-century, succeeded by presidential adherents James Madison, James Monroe, Andrew Jackson, and Martin Van Buren.[389] Jefferson is recognized for having written more than 18,000 letters of political and philosophical substance during his life, which Francis D. Cogliano describes as "a documentary legacy ... unprecedented in American history in its size and breadth."[390] Jefferson's reputation declined during the American Civil War, due to his support of states' rights. In the late 19th century, his legacy was widely criticized; conservatives felt that his democratic philosophy had led to that era's populist movement, while Progressives sought a more activist federal government than Jefferson's philosophy allowed. Both groups saw Alexander Hamilton as vindicated by history, rather than Jefferson, and President Woodrow Wilson even described Jefferson as "though a great man, not a great American".[391] Thomas Jefferson Memorial Statue, by Rudulph Evans (1947) In the 1930s, Jefferson was held in higher esteem; President Franklin D. Roosevelt (1933–1945) and New Deal Democrats celebrated his struggles for "the common man" and reclaimed him as their party's founder. Jefferson became a symbol of American democracy in the incipient Cold War, and the 1940s and 1950s saw the zenith of his popular reputation.[392] Following the civil rights movement of the 1950s and 1960s, Jefferson's slaveholding came under new scrutiny, particularly after DNA testing in the late 1990s supported allegations that he raped Sally Hemings.[393] Noting the huge output of scholarly books on Jefferson in recent years, historian Gordon Wood summarizes the raging debates about Jefferson's stature: "Although many historians and others are embarrassed about his contradictions and have sought to knock him off the democratic pedestal ... his position, though shaky, still seems secure."[394] The Siena Research Institute poll of presidential scholars, begun in 1982, has consistently ranked Jefferson as one of the five best U.S. presidents,[395] and a 2015 Brookings Institution poll of American Political Science Association members ranked him as the fifth greatest president.[396] Memorials and honors Further information: List of places named for Thomas Jefferson (left to right) George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Theodore Roosevelt and Abraham Lincoln sculpted into Mount Rushmore Jefferson has been memorialized with buildings, sculptures, postage, and currency. In the 1920s, Jefferson, together with George Washington, Theodore Roosevelt, and Abraham Lincoln, was chosen by sculptor Gutzon Borglum and approved by President Calvin Coolidge to be depicted in stone at the Mount Rushmore Memorial.[397] The Jefferson Memorial was dedicated in Washington, D.C. in 1943, on the 200th anniversary of Jefferson's birth. The interior of the memorial includes a 19-foot (6 m) statue of Jefferson and engravings of passages from his writings. Most prominent are the words inscribed around the monument near the roof: "I have sworn upon the altar of God eternal hostility against every form of tyranny over the mind of man."[398] Writings Library resources about Thomas Jefferson Online books Resources in your library Resources in other libraries By Thomas Jefferson Online books Resources in your library Resources in other libraries A Summary View of the Rights of British America (1774) Declaration of the Causes and Necessity of Taking Up Arms (1775) Declaration of Independence (1776) Memorandums taken on a journey from Paris into the southern parts of France and Northern Italy, in the year 1787 Notes on the State of Virginia (1781) Plan for Establishing Uniformity in the Coinage, Weights, and Measures of the United States A report submitted to Congress (1790) "An Essay Towards Facilitating Instruction in the Anglo-Saxon and Modern Dialects of the English Language" (1796) Manual of Parliamentary Practice for the Use of the Senate of the United States (1801) Autobiography (1821) Jefferson Bible, or The Life and Morals of Jesus of Nazareth See also List of Presidents of the United States by previous experience List of Presidents of the United States who owned slaves List of abolitionist forerunners Jefferson Monroe Levy Clotel or The President's Daughter, an 1853 novel by William Wells Brown Seconds pendulum Notes ^ Old style: April 2, 1743 ^ Jefferson personally showed little interest in his ancestry; on his father's side, he only knew of the existence of his grandfather.[3][4] Malone writes that Jefferson vaguely knew that his grandfather "had a place on the Fluvanna River which he called Snowden after a mountain in Wales near which the Jeffersons were supposed to have once lived".[3] See also Peter Jefferson#Ancestry. ^ His other properties included Shadwell, Tufton, Lego, Pantops, and his retreat Poplar Forest. He also owned the unimproved mountaintop Montalto, and the Natural Bridge.[33] ^ While the news from Francis Eppes, with whom Lucy was staying, did not reach Jefferson until 1785, in an undated letter,[43] it is clear that the year of her death was 1784 from another letter to Jefferson from James Currie dated November 20, 1784.[44] ^ Adams recorded his exchange with Jefferson on the question. Jefferson asked, "Why will you not? You ought to do it." To which Adams responded, "I will not—reasons enough." Jefferson replied, "What can be your reasons?" and Adams responded, "Reason first, you are a Virginian, and a Virginian ought to appear at the head of this business. Reason second, I am obnoxious, suspected, and unpopular. You are very much otherwise. Reason third, you can write ten times better than I can." "Well," said Jefferson, "if you are decided, I will do as well as I can." Adams concluded, "Very well. When you have drawn it up, we will have a meeting."[54] ^ Franklin, seated beside the author, observed him "writhing a little under the acrimonious criticisms on some of its parts."[58] ^ the immediate successor to the Second Continental Congress ^ An example can be seen at the Library of Congress website. ^ Jefferson's Kentucky draft said: "where powers are assumed which have not been delegated, a nullification of the act is the rightful remedy: that every State has a natural right in cases not within the compact, (casus non fœderis) to nullify of their own authority all assumptions of power by others within their limits."[128] ^ This electoral process problem was addressed by the Twelfth Amendment to the United States Constitution in 1804, which provided separate votes for presidential and vice presidential candidates.[137] ^ Louisiana nevertheless gained statehood nine years later in 1812.[174] ^ Further complicating matters, Wilkinson was posthumously revealed to have been in the simultaneous pay of the British, French, and Spanish.[207] ^ Burr then left for Europe and eventually returned to practicing law. ^ The First Bank of the U.S. was eventually abolished in 1811 by a heavily Republican Congress.[316] ^ Aaron Burr was offered help in obtaining the governorship of New York by Timothy Pickering if he could persuade New York to go along, but the secession effort failed when Burr lost the election. ^ For examples of each historian's view, see Wilson, Douglas L., Thomas Jefferson and the Issue of Character, The Atlantic, Nov. 1992. Finkelman (1994) "Thomas Jefferson and Antislavery: The Myth Goes On" and Joseph J. Ellis, 1996, American Sphinx: the character of Thomas Jefferson ^ The minority report from White Wallenborn stated that "the historical evidence is not substantial enough to confirm nor for that matter to refute his paternity of any of the children of Sally Hemings. The DNA studies certainly enhance the possibility but ... do not prove Thomas Jefferson's paternity".[355] ^ Annette Gordon-Reed notes that it would have been legally challenging to free Sally Hemings, due to Virginia laws mandating the support of older slaves and requiring special permission for freed slaves to remain within the state.[362] References ^ Bernstein, Richard B. (May 6, 2004). Thomas Jefferson: The Revolution of Ideas. Oxford University Press, p. 78. ^ Tucker, 1837, v. 1, p. 18. ^ a b c Malone, 1948, pp. 5–6. ^ Brodie, 1974, pp. 33–34. ^ Malone, 1948, pp. 31–33. ^ Malone, 1948, pp. 437–40. ^ Tucker, 1837, v. 1, p. 19. ^ a b Bowers, 1945, p.12–13 ^ Peterson, 1970, pp. 7–9. ^ Bowers, 1945, p. 13 ^ Meacham, p. 36 ^ Bowers, 1945, p. 14–15 ^ Boles, 2017, p. 17; Bowers,1945, p. 25 ^ Bowers,1945, pp. 22–23; Boles, 2017, p. 18 ^ Meacham, 2012, pp. 29, 39. ^ Meacham, 2012, pp. 19, 28–29. ^ Chinard, 1926, book cover ^ Bowers, 1945, pp.32–34; Boles, 2017, p. 19; ^ Meacham, 2012, p. 37 ^ Tucker, 1837, v. 1, p. 42. ^ Ferling, 2000, p. 43. ^ Library of Congress ^ Boles, 2017, p. 458 ^ Root, Daniel (October 12, 2015). "I cannot live without books". UWIRE Text. ^ Meacham, 2012, pp. 11, 49. ^ Tucker, 1837, v. 1, p. 40. ^ Meacham, 2012, pp. 47–49. ^ Gordon-Reed, 2008, p. 348. ^ a b Gordon-Reed, 2008, pp. 99–100. ^ Meacham, 2012, p. 49. ^ Konig, David T., Encyclopedia Virginia ^ Meacham, 2012, pp. 71–73. ^ Bear, 1967, p. 51. ^ "Building Monticello". Retrieved April 21, 2020. ^ TJF: Monticello (House) FAQ – "Who built the house?" ^ Ellis, 1996, pp. 142–44. ^ "They Did What? 15 Famous People Who Actually Married Their Cousins". Retrieved August 24, 2019. ^ a b Tucker, 1837, v. 1, p. 47. ^ Roberts, 1993 ^ Malone, 1948, p. 53. ^ Malone, 1948, pp. 47, 158. ^ "Lucy Jefferson (1782-1784)". Thomas Jefferson's Monticello. Retrieved February 17, 2020. ^ “To Thomas Jefferson from Francis Eppes, [14 October 1784],” Founders Online, National Archives, accessed September 29, 2019, https://founders.archives.gov/documents/Jefferson/01-07-02-0342. [Original source: The Papers of Thomas Jefferson, vol. 7, March 2, 1784 – February 25, 1785, ed. Julian P. Boyd. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1953, pp. 441–442.] ^ “To Thomas Jefferson from James Currie, 20 November 1784,” Founders Online, National Archives, accessed September 29, 2019, https://founders.archives.gov/documents/Jefferson/01-07-02-0388. [Original source: The Papers of Thomas Jefferson, vol. 7, March 2, 1784 – February 25, 1785, ed. Julian P. Boyd. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1953, pp. 538–539.] ^ a b White House Archives ^ Gordon-Reed, 2008, p. 145; Meacham, 2012, p. 53. ^ Halliday, 2009, pp. 48–53. ^ TJF:Monticello Construction ^ Bernstein, 2003, p. 109. ^ Bowers, 1945, p. v ^ Tucker, 1837, v. 1, p. 77. ^ Meacham, 2012, pp. 103–04. ^ Peterson, 1970, p. 87. ^ Meacham, 2012, p. 102. ^ Maier, 1997, p. 104. ^ a b Meacham, 2012, p. 105. ^ a b Ellis, 1996, p. 50. ^ Tucker, 1837, p. 90. ^ Meacham, 2012, p. 110. ^ Ellis, 2008, pp. 55–56. ^ Brodie, 1974, p. 112. ^ a b Peterson, 1970, pp. 101–02, 114, 140. ^ Ferling, 2004, p. 26. ^ Tucker, 1837, v. 1, p. 102; Bernstein, 2003, p. 42. ^ Peterson, 1970, pp. 134, 142; Bernstein, 2003, pp. 68–69. ^ Brewer, Holly (1997). "Entailing Aristocracy in Colonial Virginia: 'Ancient Feudal Restraints' and Revolutionary Reform". William and Mary Quarterly. 54 (2): 307–46. doi:10.2307/2953276. JSTOR 2953276. ^ Morris, Richard B. (1927). "Primogeniture and Entailed Estates in America". Columbia Law Review. 27 (1): 24–51. doi:10.2307/1113540. JSTOR 1113540. ^ Tucker, 1837, v. 1, p. 134. ^ Tucker, 1837, v. 1, p. 137. ^ Peterson, 1970, pp. 234–38. ^ Meacham, 2012, pp. 133–35; Ellis, 1996, p. 66; Gordon-Reed, 2008, pp. 136–37. ^ "From Thomas Jefferson to Sampson Mathews, 12 January 1781 Founders Online, National Archives," last modified July 11, 2019, https://founders.archives.gov/documents/Jefferson/01-04-02-0417. [Original source: The Papers of Thomas Jefferson, vol. 4, October 1, 1780 – February 24, 1781, ed. Julian P. Boyd. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1951, p. 343] ^ Bryan, Charles (October 25, 2014). "Richmond's Benedict Arnold". Richmond Times Dispatch. Richmond, Virginia. Retrieved July 11, 2019. ^ Tucker, 1837, v. 1, p. 157. ^ Meacham, 2012, pp. 140–42. ^ Tucker, 1837, v. 1, p. 263. ^ Tucker, 1837, v. 1, pp. 165–66. ^ Shuffelton, 1999 ^ Notes on the State of Virginia, p. 149; Burstein, 2006, p. 146. ^ Notes on the State of Virginia, 1853, Query XI ^ TJF: Thomas Jefferson's Enlightenment and American Indians ^ Bernstein, 2004, p. 78. ^ Tucker, 1837, v. 1, p. 166. ^ Peterson, 1970, ch. 5. ^ Tucker, 1837, v. 1, pp. 172–73. ^ Peterson, 1970, p. 275. ^ Rayner, 1834, p. 207. ^ a b Peterson, 1960, pp. 189–90. ^ Finkelman, 1989, pp. 21–51. ^ "Enclosure I: Commission for Negotiating Treaties of Amity and Commerce, 16 May 1784," Founders Online, National Archives, last modified June 13, 2018, https://founders.archives.gov/documents/Jefferson/01-07-02-0214. [Original source: The Papers of Thomas Jefferson, vol. 7, March 2, 1784 – February 25, 1785, ed. Julian P. Boyd. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1953, pp. 262–265.] ^ Peterson, 1970, pp. 289–94. ^ Stewart, 1997, p. 39. ^ Meacham, 2012, p. 180. ^ McCullough, 2001, p. 330. ^ Bowers, 1945, pp.vii-viii ^ TJF: Maria Cosway (Engraving) ^ Gordon-Reed, 2008, pp. 156, 164–68. ^ a b "Memoirs of Madison Hemings". Frontline. Public Broadcasting Service – WGBH Boston. Retrieved November 29, 2011. ^ Bowers, 1945, p. 328. ^ Burstein, 2010, p. 120. ^ Jefferson, Thomas (July 19, 1789). Letter from Thomas Jefferson to John Jay. National Archives. File Unit: Letters from Thomas Jefferson, 1785 – 1789. National Archives at Washington, DC. Retrieved January 30, 2017. ^ Meacham, 2012, pp. 222–23. ^ TJF: Coded Messages ^ Ellis, 1996, pp. 116–17. ^ Ellis, 1996, p. 110; Wood, 2010, pp. 179–81. ^ Tucker, 1837, v. 1, p. 334. ^ Tucker, 1837, v. 1, pp. 364–69. ^ Chernow, 2004, p. 427. ^ a b Cooke, 1970, pp. 523–45. ^ Bernstein, 2003, p. 96. ^ Randall (1996), p. 1. ^ Tucker, 1837, v. 1, p. 429. ^ Greider, 2010, p. 246. ^ Wood, 2010, pp. 145–49. ^ Wood, 2010, pp. 186–88. ^ Ellis, 1996, p. 119; Meacham, 2012, pp. 283–84; Tucker, 1837, v. 1, p. 523. ^ Meacham, 2012, pp. 293–94. ^ Peterson, 1970, ch.8 [e-book]. ^ Yarbrough, 2006, p. xx. ^ Meacham, 2012, p. 305. ^ Bernstein, 2003, pp. 117–18. ^ Elkins, 1994, p. 566. ^ Chernow, 2004, p. 550. ^ Meacham, 2012, p. 312. ^ Tucker, 1837, v. 2, p. 54. ^ Wood, 2010, pp. 269–71. ^ Meacham, 2012, p. 318. ^ Thomas Jefferson, Resolutions Relative to the Alien and Sedition Acts, 1798 ^ Onuf, 2000, p. 73. ^ Chernow, 2004, p. 574. ^ Chernow, 2004, p. 587. ^ Meacham, 2012, p. 323. ^ Bernstein, 2003, pp. 126–28; McCullough, 2001, p. 556. ^ McCullough, 2001, pp. 543–44. ^ Appleby, 2003, pp. 27–28. ^ Tucker, 1837, v. 2, p. 75; Wood, 2010, p. 278. ^ a b c d Wood, 2010, pp. 284–85. ^ Meacham, 2012, pp. 340–41. ^ Ferling, 2004, p. 208. ^ Meacham, 2012, pp. 337–38. ^ Wood, 2010, pp. 287–88. ^ Hale, 1896, Illustrious Americans, p. 124. ^ Meacham, 2012, pp. 348–50. ^ a b Peterson (2002), p. 40. ^ a b Peterson, 2002, p. 41. ^ a b c d Meacham, 2012, p. 387. ^ a b Wood, 2010, p. 293. ^ Bailey, 2007, p. 216. ^ Wills, 2002, pp. 50–51. ^ Chernow, 2004, p. 671. ^ Meacham, 2012, p. 357. ^ Meacham, 2012, p. 375. ^ Urofsky, 2006, p. viii. ^ Scythes, 2014, pp. 693–94. ^ Scythes, 2014, pp. 422–23. ^ Murray, Stuart (2009). The Library: An Illustrated History. Skyhorse Publishing. pp. 156. ISBN 978-0-8389-0991-1. ^ Fremont-Barnes, 2006, p. 32. ^ Fremont-Barnes, 2006, p. 36. ^ First Barbary War ^ a b Meacham, 2012, pp. 364–65. ^ Herring, 2008, p. 97. ^ Treaties and other international acts of the United States of America /. Washington, D.C. 1931–1948. hdl:2027/uiug.30112104106221. ^ Wood, 2010, p. 638. ^ Bernstein. 2003, p. 146. ^ Wood, 2010, p. 639. ^ Meacham, 2012, pp. 383–84. ^ Wood, 2010, p. 368. ^ a b Freehling, 2005, p. 69. ^ a b Ellis, 2008, pp. 207–08. ^ Wilentz, 2005, p. 108. ^ Meecham, 2012, pp. 389–90. ^ Tucker, 1837, v. 2, pp. 152–54. ^ Peterson, 1970, p. 777; Wood, 2010, p. 372; Ellis, 2008, p. 230. ^ Wood, 2010, p. 373. ^ Ellis, 2008, pp. 231–32. ^ Ambrose, 1996, pp. 76, 418. ^ Ambrose, 1996, p. 154. ^ Rodriguez, 2002, pp. xxiv, 162, 185. ^ Rodriguez, 2002, pp. 112, 186. ^ Ambrose, 1996, pp. 54, 80. ^ Ambrose, 1996, pp. 154, 409, 512. ^ Berry, 2006, p. xi. ^ TJF: American Indians ^ Miller, 2008, p. 90. ^ a b Sheehan, 1974, pp. 120–21. ^ Peterson, 1970, ch. 9. ^ TJF: President Jefferson and the Indian Nations ^ The Life and Writings of Thomas Jefferson, pp. 265–66. ^ Miller, 2008, p. 94. ^ a b Meacham, 2012, pp. 405–06. ^ Meacham, 2012, pp. 415–17. ^ Tucker, 1837, v. 2, pp. 291–94. ^ Miller, 1980, pp. 145–46. ^ a b Randall, 1994, p. 583. ^ Kaplan, 1999, p. 407. ^ a b c Peterson, 2002, p. 49. ^ Jefferson, Haiti The Journal of Southern History 61, no. 2 (May 1995), p. 221. ^ Bernstein, 2003, pp. 146–47. ^ Malone, 1981, p. 11. ^ Chernow, 2004, p. 714. ^ Wood, 2010, pp. 385–86. ^ Banner (1974), p. 34. ^ a b Banner (1974), pp. 34–35. ^ a b The Burr Conspiracy (2000) ^ a b c Peterson (2002), p. 50. ^ Wood, 2010, pp. 385–86; Meacham, 2012, pp. 420, 422. ^ Bernstein, 2003, pp. 161–62. ^ Meacham, 2012, p. 420. ^ a b Banner (1974), p. 37. ^ Appleby, 2003, p. 100; Bernstein, 2003, p. 162. ^ Bernstein, 2003, pp. 163–64; Meacham, 2012, pp. 422–23. ^ Banner, 1974, p. 37. ^ Bernstein, 2003, p. 165. ^ Appleby, 2003, p. 101. ^ Hayes, 2008, pp. 504–05. ^ a b c d TJF: Embargo of 1807 ^ Meacham, 2012, pp. 425–29. ^ Meacham, 2012, p. 430; Bernstein, 2003, p. 168. ^ Burstein, 2010, pp. 497–98. ^ Meacham, 2012, p. 430. ^ Tucker, 1990, v. 1, pp. 204–09, 232. ^ Cogliano, 2008, p. 250; Meacham, 2012, p. 475. ^ Appleby, 2003, p. 145; Ellis, 1996, p. 237. ^ Hayes, 2008, pp. 504–05; Kaplan, 1999, pp. 166–68. ^ Hayes, 2008, pp. 504–05; Peterson, 1960, pp. 289–90. ^ Ellis, 1996, p. 238; Appleby, 2003, pp. 128–29. ^ Ellis, 1996, p. 238. ^ Tucker, 1837, v. 2, p. 479. ^ Meacham, 2012, pp. 481–82. ^ TJF: I Rise with the Sun ^ Ellis, 1996, p. 232; Meacham, 2012, pp. 463–65. ^ U Va. Library ^ Adams, 1888, p. 48. ^ a b c Peterson, 1970, ch. 11 [e-book]. ^ Hogan, 1987, pp. 28–29. ^ Gordon-Reed, 2008, p. 649. ^ TJF: James Madison ^ Crawford, 2008, p. 235. ^ a b c Freeman, 2008, p. 12. ^ Ellis, 2003, pp. 207, 209. ^ McCullough, 2001, pp. 603–05. ^ Ellis, 2003, pp. 213, 230. ^ McCullough, 2001, p. 646. ^ Ellis, 2003, p. 248. ^ a b c d Autobiography of Thomas Jefferson, 1743–1790 ^ Berstein, 2003, p. 179. ^ Hamelman, 2002, Journal ^ Mapp, 1991, p. 328. ^ Malone, 1981, pp. 403–04; Brodie, 1998, p. 460; Crawford, 2008, pp. 202–03. ^ a b Ellis, 1996, pp. 287–88. ^ Tucker, 1837, v. 2, p. 551. ^ Martin, Russell L. (June 7, 1988). "Jefferson's Last Words". Monticello. Retrieved February 2, 2019. ^ McCullough, 2001, p. 646 ^ Ellis, 2003, p. 248 ^ Rayner, 1834, pp. 428–29. ^ Bernstein, 2003, p. 189. ^ Meacham, 2012, p. 496. ^ Donaldson, 1898, p. 49. ^ Thomas Jefferson Foundation: "Thomas Jefferson, A Brief Biography" ^ "Legacy: Thomas Jefferson". Library of Congress.gov. April 24, 2000. Retrieved June 15, 2019. ^ Bernstein, 2003, p. xii. ^ Tucker, 1837, v. 2, p. 556. ^ Meacham, 2012, p. 495. ^ Ellis, 1996, p. 289. ^ Thomas Jefferson Foundation: "Sale of Monticello" ^ Hayes, 2008, p. 10. ^ Cogliano, 2008, p. 14. ^ Cogliano, 2008, p. 26. ^ Ferling, 2000, p. 158. ^ Mayer, 1994, p. 76. ^ Wood, 2010, p. 287. ^ Tucker, 1837, v. 2, pp. 559–67. ^ Smith, 2003, p. 314. ^ Bassani, 2010, p. 113. ^ Wilson, 2012, p. 584. ^ Mayer, 1994, p. 328. ^ a b c Wood, 2011, pp. 220–27. ^ Peterson, 1960, p. 340. ^ Golden & Golden, 2002, p. 60. ^ Meacham, 2012, p. 213. The full letter to William S. Smith can be seen at the Library of Congress ^ Bober, 2008, p. 264. ^ Wood, 2010, p. 277. ^ Appleby, 2003, pp. 57–58, 84. ^ Meacham, 2012, p. 298. ^ Wilentz, 2005, p. 85. ^ Meacham, 2012, p. 308. ^ Wilentz, 2005, pp. 97–98. ^ Wilentz, 2005, p. 97. ^ Wilentz, 2005, p. 138. ^ Keyssar, 2009, p. 10. ^ Ferling, 2004, p. 286. ^ Keyssar, 2009, p. 37. ^ Wilentz, 2005, p. 200. ^ Randall, 1994, p. 203. ^ TJF: "Jefferson's Religious Beliefs" ^ Onuf, 2007, pp. 139–68. ^ Jefferson Bible, 1820 ^ Peterson, 1970, ch. 2 [e-book]. ^ Wood, 2010, p. 577. ^ U.S. Gov: National Archives ^ Finkelman, 2006, p. 921. ^ Yarbrough, 2006, p. 28. ^ Peterson, 2003, p. 315. ^ W. W. Hening, ed., Statutes at Large of Virginia, vol. 12 (1823): 84–86. ^ Meacham, 2012, pp. 369–70. ^ Meacham, 2012, pp. 472–73. ^ Randall, 1994, p. 555. ^ Meacham, 2012, pp. 471–73. ^ Sanford, 1984, pp. 85–86. ^ a b Wood, 2010, p. 586. ^ Malone, 1981, pp. 140–43. ^ Meacham, 2012, pp. 224–25. ^ Wood, 2010, p. 144; Bailey, 2007, p. 82; Meacham, 2012, p. 249. ^ Ferling, 2013, pp. 221–22. ^ Wood, 2010, pp. 293–95. ^ Wood, 2010, pp. 295–96. ^ Cogliano, 2006, p. 219; Onuf, 2007, p. 258. ^ a b c d TJF: Slavery at Monticello – Property ^ Gordon-Reed, 2008, p. 292. ^ Bear, 1967, p. 99; Peterson, 1960, p. 535; Halliday, 2009, p. 236. ^ a b TJF – Thomas Jefferson's Monticello "Slave Dwellings" ^ TJF: Slavery at Monticello – Work ^ Wiencek, 2012, pp. 114, 122. ^ TJF: Thomas Jefferson's Monticello – Nailery, Wiencek, 2012, p. 93. ^ a b c d TJF: Thomas Jefferson and Slavery ^ Ferling, 2000, p. 161. ^ Howe, 2009, p. 74. ^ Meacham, p. 105. ^ Meacham, p. 475. ^ a b Ferling 2000, p. 287. ^ Finkelman (1994), p. 215. ^ Freehling, 2005, p. 70. ^ Wiencek, 2012, pp. 257–58. ^ Du Bois, 1904, pp. 95–96. ^ Ferling 2000, p. 288. ^ Ferling 2000, pp. 286, 294. ^ a b Finkelman (1994), p. 215; Finkelman (2012) ^ Finkelman (1994), pp. 220–21. ^ Appleby, 2003, pp. 139–40. ^ Ellis, 1997, p. 87. ^ Helo, 2013, p. 105; Peterson, 1970, pp. 998–99; Meacham, 2012, p. 478. ^ a b TJF:Jefferson's Antislavery Actions ^ DiLorenzo, 1998, Yankee Confederates ^ Meacham, 2012, pp. 255, 275–78. ^ Ferling 2000, p. 287. ^ TJF: Quotations on slavery (May 11, 1805) ^ Alexander, 2010; Davis, 1999, p. 179. ^ Landscape of Slavery – Mulberry Row at Monticello: Treatment ^ Cogliano, 2008, p. 209. ^ Finkelman (2012) ^ Cogliano, 2008, pp. 218–20. ^ In 1853, William Wells Brown published a novel called Clotel; or, The President's Daughter alluding to Jefferson. This is the first novel in America published by anyone of African descent.Hyland, 2009, pp. ix, 2–3. ^ Foster et al., 1998 ^ TJF: Report of the Research Committee on Thomas Jefferson and Sally Hemings – Conclusions ^ TJF: Minority Report of the Monticello Research Committee on Thomas Jefferson and Sally Hemings ^ Cottman, Michael (July 3, 2017). "Historians Uncover Slave Quarters of Sally Hemings at Thomas Jefferson's Monticello". NBC News. Retrieved February 4, 2018. ^ Thompson, Krissah (February 18, 2017). "For decades they hid Jefferson's relationship with her. Now Monticello is making room for Sally Hemings". The Washington Post. Retrieved February 4, 2018. ^ "Monticello Affirms Thomas Jefferson Fathered Children with Sally Hemings". Thomas Jefferson Foundation. June 6, 2018. Retrieved July 5, 2018. ^ Wilkinson, A. B. (2019). "Slave Life at Thomas Jefferson's Monticello". American Quarterly. 71: 247–264. doi:10.1353/aq.2019.0017. The general consensus among historians now agrees with Madison Hemings's version of the relationship between his mother and father ... Lepore, Jill (September 22, 2008). "President Tom's Cabin: Jefferson, Hemings, and a Disclaimed Lineage". The New Yorker. Retrieved November 21, 2019. [T]oday most historians agree with the conclusion of a research committee convened by the Thomas Jefferson Foundation, at Monticello: Jefferson 'most likely was the father of all six of Sally Hemings's children.' Ellis, Joseph J. (2000). "Jefferson: Post-DNA". The William and Mary Quarterly. 57 (1): 125–138. doi:10.2307/2674361. JSTOR 2674361. [T]he new scholarly consensus is that Jefferson and Hemings were sexual partners ... Whether Jefferson fathered all of Hemings's children is still unclear. "Updating a Life: The Case of Thomas Jefferson and Sally Hemings". Library of America. December 9, 2011. Most historians now agree that a preponderance of evidence—genetic, circumstantial, and oral historical—suggests that Jefferson was the father of all of Sally Hemings's children. ^ Hyland, 2009, pp. 30–31, 79; Thomas Jefferson Heritage Society ^ Gordon-Reed, 1997, pp. 657–60. ^ Gordon-Reed, 1997, pp. 658–59. ^ "Debt". Thomas Jefferson Foundation. Retrieved October 9, 2018. ^ Hayes, 2008, p. 100; McEwan, 1991, pp. 20–39. ^ Berstein, 2003, p. 193; Tucker, 1837, v. 2, p. 202. ^ Brodie, 1974, pp. 87–88; Bernstein, 2003, p. 9. ^ Hayes, 2008, pp. 135–36. ^ Kastning, 2014, p. 8. ^ a b Hayes, 2008, p. 432. ^ a b c d TJF: "American Philosophical Society" ^ Bernstein, 2003, pp. 118–19. ^ Ambrose, 1996, p. 126. ^ Tucker, 1837, v. 2, p. 399. ^ a b Univ. Virginia archives: Miller Center ^ Andresen, 2006, Chap. 1. ^ Bober, 2008, p. 16. ^ TJF: Italy – Language ^ TJF: Spanish Language ^ Hellenbrand, 1990, pp. 155–56. ^ Frawley, 2003, p. 96. ^ American Philosophical Society, 2016: Gathering voices ^ TJF: "Public speaking" ^ Univ. Virginia archives ^ Malone, 1962, pp. 213–15. ^ Kaplan, 1993, p. 315. ^ Peterson, 1970, pp. 335–36. ^ Peterson, 1960, pp. 5, 67–69, 189–208, 340. ^ Appleby, 2006, p. 149. ^ Meacham, 2012, p. xix. ^ Cogliano, 2008, p. 75. ^ Bernstein, 2003, pp. 191–92; Appleby, 2003, pp. 132–33. ^ Bernstein, 2003, pp. 192–94; Appleby, 2003, pp. 135–36. ^ Cogliano, 2008, p. 12; Appleby, 2003, p. 136, 140; Bernstein, 2003, pp. 194–97. ^ Gordon S. Wood. "Revealing the Total Jefferson," The New York Review of Books. June 23, 2016. ^ SRI, 2010. ^ Brookings, 2015 ^ NPS: Mt. Rushmore ^ Peterson, 1960, p. 378. Bibliography Main article: Bibliography of Thomas Jefferson Scholarly studies Adams, Herbert Baxter (1888). Thomas Jefferson and the University of Virginia. U.S. Government Printing Office. Alexander, Leslie (2010). Encyclopedia of African American History (American Ethnic Experience). ABC-CLIO. ISBN 978-1851097692. Ambrose, Stephen E. (1996). Undaunted Courage: Meriwether Lewis, Thomas Jefferson, and the Opening of the American West. Simon and Schuster. ISBN 978-0684811079. Andresen, Julie (2006). Linguistics in America 1769–1924: A Critical History. Routledge. ISBN 978-1134976119. Appleby, Joyce Oldham (2003). Thomas Jefferson: The American Presidents Series: The 3rd President, 1801–1809. Henry Holt and Company. ISBN 978-0805069242. Bailey, Jeremy D. (2007). Thomas Jefferson and Executive Power. Twenty-First Century Books. ISBN 978-1139466295. Banner Jr., James M. (1974). C. Vann Woodward (ed.). Responses of the Presidents to Charges of Misconduct. Delacorte Press Dell Publishing Co., Inc. ISBN 978-044005923-3. Bassani, Luigi Marco (2010). Liberty, State & Union: The Political Theory of Thomas Jefferson. Mercer University Press. ISBN 978-0881461862. Bear, James Adam (1967). Jefferson at Monticello. University of Virginia Press. ISBN 978-0813900223. —— (1974). "The Last Few Days in the Life of Thomas Jefferson". Magazine of Albemarle County History. 32: 77. Bernstein, Richard B. (2003). Thomas Jefferson. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0195181302. —— (2004). The Revolution of Ideas. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0195143683. Berry, Trey; Beasley, Pam; Clements, Jeanne (2006). The Forgotten Expedition, 1804–1805: The Louisiana Purchase Journals of Dunbar and Hunter. LSU Press. ISBN 978-0807131657. Bober, Natalie (2008). Thomas Jefferson: Draftsman of a Nation. University of Virginia Press. ISBN 978-0813927329. Boles, John B. (2017). Jefferson: Architect of American Liberty. Basic Books,626 pages. ISBN 9780465094691. Brodie, Fawn (1974). Thomas Jefferson: An Intimate History. W. W. Norton & Company. ISBN 978-0393317527. Bowers, Claude (1945). The Young Jefferson 1743–1789. Houghton Mifflin Company. Burstein, Andrew (2006). Jefferson's Secrets: Death and Desire at Monticello. Basic Books. ISBN 978-0465008131. ——; Isenberg, Nancy (2010). Madison and Jefferson. Random House. ISBN 978-1400067282. —— (2015). Democracy's Muse: How Thomas Jefferson Became an FDR Liberal, a Reagan Republican, and a Tea Party Fanatic, All the While Being Dead. University of Virginia Press. ISBN 978-0813937229. Chernow, Ron (2004). Alexander Hamilton. Penguin Press. ISBN 978-1594200090. Jefferson, Thomas (1926). Chinard, Gilbert (ed.). The Commonplace Book of Thomas Jefferson: A Repertory of His Ideas on Government, with an Introduction and Notes by Gilbert Chinard, Volume 2. ISBN 9781400860098. Cogliano, Francis D (2008). Thomas Jefferson: Reputation and Legacy. Edinburgh University Press. ISBN 978-0748624997. Cooke, Jacob E. (1970). "The Compromise of 1790". William and Mary Quarterly. 27 (4): 523–45. doi:10.2307/1919703. JSTOR 1919703. Crawford, Alan Pell (2008). Twilight at Monticello: The Final Years of Thomas Jefferson. Random House Digital. ISBN 978-1400060795. Davis, David Brion (1999). The Problem of Slavery in the Age of Revolution, 1770–1823. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0199880836. Du Bois, William Edward Burghardt (1904). The suppression of the African slave-trade to the United States of America. Longmans, Green and Co. Elkins, Stanley M.; McKitrick, Eric L. (1993). The Age of Federalism. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0195068900. Ellis, Joseph J. (1996). American Sphinx: The Character of Thomas Jefferson. Alfred A. Knopf. ISBN 978-0679444909. online free —— (2000). Thomas Jefferson: Genius of Liberty. Viking Studio. ISBN 978-0670889334. —— (2003). Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation. Knopf Doubleday Publishing Group. ISBN 978-1400077687. —— (2008). American Creation: Triumphs and Tragedies in the Founding of the Republic. Random House LLC. ISBN 978-0307263698. Ferling, John (2000). Setting the World Ablaze: Washington, Adams, Jefferson, and the American Revolution. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0195134094. —— (2004). Adams vs. Jefferson: The Tumultuous Election of 1800. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0195167719. —— (2013). Jefferson and Hamilton: the rivalry that forged a nation. Bloomsbury Press. ISBN 978-1608195428. Finkelman, Paul (1989). "Evading the Ordinance: The Persistence of Bondage in Indiana and Illinois". Journal of the Early Republic. 9 (1): 21–51. doi:10.2307/3123523. JSTOR 3123523. Finkelman, Paul, ed. (2006). The Encyclopedia of American Civil Liberties A-F Index. 1. Taylor & Francis Group. ISBN 978-1135947040. Finkelman, Paul (April 1994). "Thomas Jefferson and Antislavery: The Myth Goes On" (PDF). The Virginia Magazine of History and Biography. Vol. 102 no. 2. Virginia Historical Society. pp. 193–228. Foster, Eugene A.; et al. (November 5, 1998). "Jefferson fathered slave's last child". Nature. 396 (6706): 27–28. Bibcode:1998Natur.396...27F. doi:10.1038/23835. PMID 9817200. Frawley, William J., ed. (2003). "International Encyclopedia of Linguistics: 4-Volume Set". International Encyclopedia of Linguistics. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0195139778. Freehling, William W. (2005). Sanford Levinson; Bartholomew H. Sparrow (eds.). The Louisiana Purchase and American Expansion, 1803–1898 The Louisiana Purchase and the Coming of the Civil War. New York: Rowman & Littlefield Publishers, Inc. pp. 69–82. ISBN 978-0742549838. Freeman, Joanne B. (2008). Frank Shuffelton (ed.). The Cambridge Companion to Thomas Jefferson. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0521867313. Fremont-Barnes, Gregory (2006). The Wars of the Barbary Pirates: To the Shores of Tripoli – The Rise of the US Navy and Marines. Osprey Publishing. ISBN 978-1846030307. Golden, James L.; Golden, Alan L. (2002). Thomas Jefferson and the Rhetoric of Virtue. Rowman & Littlefield. ISBN 9780742520806. Gordon-Reed, Annette (1997). Thomas Jefferson and Sally Hemings: An American Controversy. University Press of Virginia. ISBN 978-0813916989. —— (2008). The Hemingses of Monticello: An American Family. W. W. Norton & Company. ISBN 978-0393064773. Gordon-Reed, Annette; Onuf, Peter S. (April 13, 2016). "Most Blessed of the Patriarchs": Thomas Jefferson and the Empire of the Imagination. ISBN 9781631490781. ; online review Greider, William (2010). Who Will Tell the People. Simon & Schuster. ISBN 978-1439128749. Halliday, E. M. (2009). Understanding Thomas Jefferson. Harper Collins. ISBN 978-0060197933. Hamelman, Steven (January 1, 2002). "Autobiography and Archive: Franklin, Jefferson, and the Revized Self". Midwest Quarterly. Harrison, John Houston (1935). Settlers by the Long Grey Trail: Some Pioneers to Old Augusta County, Virginia, and Their Descendants of the Family of Harrison and Allied Lines. Genealogical Publishing Com. ISBN 978-0806306643. Hart, Charles Henry (1899). Browere's Life Masks of Great Americans. De Vinne Press for Doubleday and McClure Company. Hayes, Kevin J. (2008). The Road to Monticello: The Life and Mind of Thomas Jefferson. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0195307580. Hellenbrand, Harold (1990). The Unfinished Revolution: Education and Politics in the Thought of Thomas Jefferson. Associated University Presse. ISBN 978-0874133707. Helo, Ari (2013). Thomas Jefferson's Ethics and the Politics of Human Progress: The Morality of a Slaveholder. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-1107435551. Herring, George C. (2008). From Colony to Superpower: U.S. Foreign Relations since 1776. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0199743773. Hogan, Pendleton (1987). The Lawn: A Guide to Jefferson's University. University Press of Virginia. ISBN 978-0813911090. Howe, Daniel Walker (2009). Making the American Self: Jonathan Edwards to Abraham Lincoln. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0199740796. Hyland, William G (2009). In Defense of Thomas Jefferson: The Sally Hemings Sex Scandal. Carolina Academic Press. ISBN 978-0890890851. Johnson, Jeffrey K. (2010). "The Countryside Triumphant: Jefferson's Ideal of Rural Superiority in Modern Superhero Mythology". The Journal of Popular Culture. 43 (4): 720–737. doi:10.1111/j.1540-5931.2010.00767.x. Kaplan, Lawrence S. (1999). Thomas Jefferson: Westward the Course of Empire. Rowman & Littlefield. ISBN 978-0842026307. Keyssar, Alexander (2009). The Right to Vote: The Contested History of Democracy in the United States. Basic Books. ISBN 978-0465010141. Maier, Pauline (1997). American Scripture: Making the Declaration of Independence. Knopf. ISBN 978-0679454922. Malone, Dumas, ed. (1933). "Jefferson, Thomas". Dictionary of American Biography. 10. Charles Scribner's Sons. pp. 17–35. Malone, Dumas. Jefferson (6 vol. 1948–1981) —— (1948). Jefferson, The Virginian. Jefferson and His Time. 1. Little Brown. OCLC 1823927. , Ebook —— (1951). Jefferson and the Rights of Man. Jefferson and His Time. 2. Little Brown. —— (1962). Jefferson and the Ordeal of Liberty. Jefferson and His Time. 3. Little, Brown. ISBN 978-0316544757. —— (1970). Jefferson the President: First Term, 1801–1805. Jefferson and His Time. 4. Little Brown. —— (1974). Jefferson the President: Second Term, 1805–1809. Jefferson and His Time. 5. Little Brown. OCLC 1929523. —— (1981). The Sage of Monticello. Jefferson and His Time. 6. Little Brown. ISBN 978-0316544788. Mapp, Alf J. (1991). Jefferson: Passionate Pilgrim. Rowman & Littlefield. ISBN 978-0517098882. Mayer, David N. (1994). The Constitutional Thought of Thomas Jefferson (Constitutionalism and Democracy). University of Virginia Press. ISBN 978-0813914855. Mayer, David (2008). "Jefferson, Thomas (1743–1826)". In Hamowy, Ronald (ed.). The Encyclopedia of Libertarianism. Thousand Oaks, CA: SAGE; Cato Institute. pp. 262–63. doi:10.4135/9781412965811.n158. ISBN 978-1412965804. LCCN 2008009151. OCLC 750831024. McCullough, David (2001). John Adams. Simon & Schuster. ISBN 978-1471104527. McDonald, Robert M. S. (2004). Thomas Jefferson's Military Academy: Founding West Point. Jeffersonian America. University of Virginia Press. ISBN 978-0813922980. McEwan, Barbara (1991). Thomas Jefferson, Farmer. McFarland. ISBN 978-0899506333. Meacham, Jon (2012). Thomas Jefferson: The Art of Power. Random House LLC. ISBN 978-0679645368. Miller, John Chester (1980). The Wolf by the Ears: Thomas Jefferson and Slavery. University of Virginia Press. ISBN 978-0452005303. Miller, Robert J. (2008). Native America, Discovered and Conquered: Thomas Jefferson, Lewis & Clark, and Manifest Destiny. University of Nebraska Press. ISBN 978-0803215986. Onuf, Peters S. (2000). Jefferson's Empire: The Language of American Nationhood. U of Virginia Press. ISBN 978-0813922041. —— (2007). The Mind of Thomas Jefferson. University of Virginia Press. ISBN 978-0813926117. Peterson, Merrill D. (1960). The Jefferson Image in the American Mind. University of Virginia Press. ISBN 978-0813918518. —— (1970). Thomas Jefferson and the New Nation; a Biography. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0195000542. —— (2002). "Thomas Jefferson". In Graff, Henry (ed.). The Presidents: A Reference History (7th ed.). Charles Scribner's Sons. pp. 39–56. Phillips, Julieanne (1997). "Northwest Ordinance (1787)". In Rodriguez, Junius (ed.). The Historical Encyclopedia of World Slavery. ABC-CLIO. pp. 473–74. ISBN 9780874368857. Randall, Willard Sterne (1994). Thomas Jefferson: A Life. Harper Collins. ISBN 978-0060976170. Randall, Willard Sterne (1996). "Thomas Jefferson Takes A Vacation". American Heritage. Vol. 47 no. 4. Rodriguez, Junius (2002). The Louisiana Purchase: a historical and geographical encyclopedia. ABC-CLIO. ISBN 978-1576071885. Sheehan, Bernard (1974). Seeds of Extinction: Jeffersonian Philanthropy and the American Indian. W. W. Norton & Company. ISBN 978-0393007169. Scythes, James (2014). Spencer C. Tucker (ed.). The Encyclopedia of the Wars of the Early American Republic, 1783–1812 A Political, Social, and Military History. Santa Barbara, California: ABC-CLIO. ISBN 978-1598841565. Shuffelton, Frank (1974). "Introduction". In Jefferson, Thomas. (ed.). Notes on the State of Virginia. Penguin. ISBN 978-0140436679. Smith, Robert C. (2003). Encyclopedia of African American Politics. Infobase Publishing, 433 pages. ISBN 9781438130194. Tucker, George (1837). The Life of Thomas Jefferson, Third President of the United States; 2 vol. Carey, Lea & Blanchard. —— (1990). Empire of Liberty: The Statecraft of Thomas Jefferson. Cogliano Press. ISBN 978-0198022763. Urofsky, Melvin I., ed. (2006). Biographical Encyclopedia of the Supreme Court: The Lives and Legal Philosophies of the Justices. CQ Press. ISBN 978-1452267289. Wiencek, Henry (2012). Master of the Mountain. Macmillan. Wilentz, Sean (2005). The Rise of American Democracy. W. W. Norton & Company. pp. 108–11. ISBN 978-0393058208. Wilson, Steven Harmon (2012). The U.S. Justice System: Law and constitution in early America. ABC-CLIO. ISBN 9781598843040. Wood, Gordon S (2006). Revolutionary Characters: What Made the Founders Different. Penguin Press. ISBN 978-1594200939. —— (2010). Empire of Liberty: A History of the Early Republic, 1789–1815. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0195039146. —— (2011). The Idea of America: Reflections on the Birth of the United States. Penguin Press. ISBN 978-1594202902. Thomas Jefferson Foundation sources Thomas Jefferson Foundation (Main page and site-search) "American Philosophical Society". Thomas Jefferson Foundation. Retrieved July 25, 2016. "Coded Messages". Thomas Jefferson Foundation. Retrieved July 22, 2016. "Embargo of 1807". Thomas Jefferson Foundation. Retrieved July 22, 2016. "I Rise with the Sun". Thomas Jefferson Foundation. Retrieved July 22, 2016. "Italy – Language". Thomas Jefferson Foundation. Retrieved July 25, 2016. "James Madison". Thomas Jefferson Foundation. Retrieved July 22, 2016. "Jefferson's Antislavery Actions". Thomas Jefferson Foundation. Retrieved July 24, 2016. "Landscape of Slavery – Mulberry Row at Monticello: Treatment". Thomas Jefferson Foundation. Retrieved July 25, 2016. "Maria Cosway (Engraving)". Thomas Jefferson Foundation. Retrieved July 21, 2016. "Minority Report of the Monticello Research Committee on Thomas Jefferson and Sally Hemings". Thomas Jefferson Foundation. Retrieved July 25, 2016. "Monticello construction chronology". Thomas Jefferson Foundation. Retrieved July 17, 2016. "Monticello (House) FAQ – Who built the house?". Thomas Jefferson Foundation. Retrieved July 17, 2016. "Nailery". Thomas Jefferson Foundation. Retrieved July 24, 2016. "President Jefferson and the Indian Nations". Thomas Jefferson Foundation. Retrieved July 22, 2016. "Public Speaking". Thomas Jefferson Foundation. Retrieved July 25, 2016. "Quotations on Slavery and Emancipation". Thomas Jefferson Foundation. Archived from the original on August 20, 2016. Retrieved July 24, 2016. "Report of the Research Committee on Thomas Jefferson and Sally Hemings – Conclusions". Thomas Jefferson Foundation. Retrieved July 25, 2016. "Sale of Monticello". Thomas Jefferson Foundation. Retrieved July 16, 2016. "Slave Dwellings". Thomas Jefferson Foundation. Archived from the original on March 4, 2016. Retrieved July 16, 2016. "Slavery at Monticello FAQ – Property". Thomas Jefferson Foundation. Retrieved July 24, 2016. "Slavery at Monticello FAQ – Work". Thomas Jefferson Foundation. Retrieved July 24, 2016. "Spanish Language". Thomas Jefferson Foundation. Retrieved July 25, 2016. "Thomas Jefferson: A Brief Biography". Thomas Jefferson Foundation. Retrieved July 24, 2016. "Thomas Jefferson and Sally Hemings: A Brief Account". Thomas Jefferson Foundation. Retrieved July 25, 2016. "Thomas Jefferson and Slavery". Thomas Jefferson Foundation. Retrieved May 5, 2016. "Thomas Jefferson's Enlightenment and American Indians". Thomas Jefferson Foundation. Retrieved July 20, 2016. "Thomas Jefferson's Religious Beliefs". Thomas Jefferson Foundation. Retrieved July 24, 2016. Primary sources The Papers of Thomas Jefferson, – the Princeton University Press edition of the correspondence and papers; vol 1 appeared in 1950; vol 41 (covering part of 1803) appeared in 2014. "Founders Online," searchable edition Jefferson, Thomas (November 10, 1798). "Thomas Jefferson, Resolutions Relative to the Alien and Sedition Acts". The Founder's Constitution. University of Chicago Press. Retrieved November 2, 2015. Jefferson, Thomas (1914). Autobiography of Thomas Jefferson 1743–1790. New York: G.P. Putnam's Sons. "Thomas Jefferson". University of Virginia Library. Retrieved September 2, 2009. Thomas Jefferson (1900). The Life and Writings of Thomas Jefferson. Bowen-Merrill Company. pp. 265–66. —— (1853). Notes on the State of Virginia. J.W. Randolph. (Note: This was Jefferson's only book; numerous editions) —— (1977). The Portable Thomas Jefferson. Penguin Press. ISBN 978-1101127667. Yarbrough, Jean M.; Jefferson, Thomas (2006). The Essential Jefferson. Hackett Publishing. ISBN 978-1603843782. Web site sources "Gathering Voices: Thomas Jefferson and Native America". American Philosophical Society. Archived from the original on August 13, 2016. Retrieved August 11, 2016. "Thomas Jefferson to Horatio G. Spafford, 17 March 1814". U.S. Government: National Archives. Retrieved March 25, 2019. "American President: A Reference Resource". University of Virginia: Miller Center. Archived from the original on August 26, 2014. Retrieved August 26, 2014. Barger, Herbert (October 15, 2008). "The Jefferson-Hemings DNA Study". Jefferson DNA Study Group. Retrieved April 4, 2012. "Carving History". Mount Rushmore National Memorial. National Park Service. Retrieved April 1, 2012. Finkelman, Paul (November 30, 2012). "The Monster of Monticello". The New York Times. Retrieved May 5, 2016. Haimann, Alexander T. (May 16, 2006). "5-cent Jefferson". Arago, Smithsonian Institution. Retrieved November 6, 2015. "Jefferson's library". Library of Congress. April 24, 2000. Retrieved October 25, 2015. "Jefferson Nickel". U.S. Mint. Retrieved November 6, 2015. "Jefferson's Vision of the Academical Village". University of Virginia. October 14, 2010. Archived from the original on December 25, 2015. Retrieved November 5, 2015. "Martha Wayles Skelton Jefferson". The White House. Retrieved October 3, 2011. Roberts, Gary Boyd (April–May 1993). "The Royal Descents of Jane Pierce, Alice and Edith Roosevelt, Helen Taft, Eleanor Roosevelt, and Barbara Bush". American Ancestors. New England Historic Genealogical Society. Retrieved October 29, 2015. Rottinghaus, Brandon; Vaughn, Justin S. (February 13, 2015). "Measuring Obama against the great presidents". Brookings Institution. Retrieved October 30, 2015. "The Jefferson Hemings Controversy – Report of The Scholars Commission: Summary" (PDF). Thomas Jefferson Heritage Society. 2011 [2001]. pp. 8–9, 11, 15–17. Archived from the original (PDF) on September 18, 2016. Retrieved July 26, 2016. "Siena Poll: American Presidents". Siena Research Institute. July 6, 2010. Archived from the original on July 6, 2010. Retrieved October 30, 2015. "Thomas Jefferson: Biography". National Park Service. Retrieved August 1, 2007. "The Thomas Jefferson Papers Timeline: 1743–1827". Retrieved July 19, 2009. "Thomas Jefferson Presidential $1 Coin". U.S. Mint. Retrieved November 6, 2015. "U.S. Currency: $2 Note". U.S. Bureau of Engraving and Printing. Retrieved November 6, 2015. "The Life and Morals of Jesus of Nazareth". 1820. Retrieved August 12, 2010. "Bookquick/"The Autobiography of Thomas Jefferson, 1743–1790" | Penn Current". Archived from the original on December 8, 2015. Retrieved December 12, 2015. Konig, David T. "Jefferson Thomas and the Practice of_Law, Three cases". Retrieved January 28, 2016. "The Burr Conspiracy". PBS American Experience. 2000. Retrieved May 23, 2016. Wilson, Douglas L. (1992). "Thomas Jefferson and the Issue of Character". Retrieved May 22, 2016. Teaching methods Smith, Mark A. (2009). "Teaching Jefferson". The History Teacher. 42 (3): 329–340. JSTOR 40543539. External links Listen to this article (info/dl) This audio file was created from a revision of the article "Thomas Jefferson" dated 2019-03-02, and does not reflect subsequent edits to the article. (Audio help) More spoken articles Thomas Jeffersonat Wikipedia's sister projects Definitions from Wiktionary Media from Wikimedia Commons News from Wikinews Quotations from Wikiquote Texts from Wikisource Textbooks from Wikibooks Resources from Wikiversity White House biography United States Congress. "Thomas Jefferson (id: J000069)". Biographical Directory of the United States Congress. Thomas Jefferson Papers: An Electronic Archive at the Massachusetts Historical Society Thomas Jefferson collection at the University of Virginia Library The Papers of Thomas Jefferson, subset of Founders Online from the National Archives Jefferson, Thomas (1774). Summary View of the Rights of British America – via World Digital Library. The Thomas Jefferson Hour, a radio show about all things Thomas Jefferson The Thomas Jefferson Hour "The Papers of Thomas Jefferson". Avalon Project. Works by Thomas Jefferson at Project Gutenberg Works by or about Thomas Jefferson at Internet Archive Works by Thomas Jefferson at LibriVox (public domain audiobooks) "Collection of Thomas Jefferson Manuscripts and Letters". "Thomas Jefferson's Family: A Genealogical Chart". Jefferson Quotes & Family Letters. Newspaper clippings about Thomas Jefferson in the 20th Century Press Archives of the ZBW v t e Thomas Jefferson 3rd President of the United States (1801–1809) 2nd U.S. Vice President (1797–1801) 1st U.S. Secretary of State (1790–1793) U.S. Minister to France (1785–1789) 2nd Governor of Virginia (1779–1781) Delegate, Second Continental Congress (1775–1776) Founding documents of the United States A Summary View of the Rights of British America (1774) Initial draft, Olive Branch Petition (1775) Declaration of the Causes and Necessity of Taking Up Arms (1775) 1776 Declaration of Independence Committee of Five authored physical history "All men are created equal" "Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness" "Consent of the governed" 1786 Virginia Statute for Religious Freedom freedom of religion French Revolution Co-author, Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen (1789) Presidency Inaugural Address (1801 1805) Act Prohibiting Importation of Slaves Louisiana Purchase Lewis and Clark Expedition Corps of Discovery timeline Empire of Liberty Red River Expedition Pike Expedition Cumberland Road Embargo Act of 1807 Chesapeake–Leopard affair Non-Intercourse Act of 1809 First Barbary War Native American policy Marbury v. Madison West Point Military Academy State of the Union Addresses (texts 1801 1802 1805) Cabinet Federal judicial appointments Other noted accomplishments Early life and career Franco-American alliance Founder, University of Virginia history Ratification Day Land Ordinance of 1784 Northwest Ordinance 1787 Anti-Administration party Democratic-Republican Party Jeffersonian democracy First Party System republicanism Plan for Establishing Uniformity in the Coinage, Weights, and Measure of the United States (1790) Kentucky and Virginia Resolutions A Manual of Parliamentary Practice (1801) American Creed Jefferson disk Swivel chair Jeffersonian architecture Barboursville Farmington Monticello gardens Poplar Forest University of Virginia The Rotunda The Lawn Jefferson Hall Virginia State Capitol White House Colonnades Other writings Notes on the State of Virginia (1785) 1787 European journey memorandums Indian removal letters Jefferson Bible (c. 1819) Jefferson manuscript collection at the Massachusetts Historical Society The Papers of Thomas Jefferson Related Age of Enlightenment American Enlightenment American Philosophical Society American Revolution patriots Claude G. Bowers Member, Virginia Committee of Correspondence Committee of the States Founding Fathers of the United States Jefferson and education Religious views Jefferson and slavery Jefferson and the Library of Congress Jefferson Pier Pet mockingbird National Gazette Residence Act Compromise of 1790 Sally Hemings Jefferson–Hemings controversy Betty Hemings Separation of church and state The American Museum magazine Virginia dynasty Elections United States Presidential election 1796 1800 1804 Legacy and Memorials Bibliography Jefferson Memorial Mount Rushmore Birthday Thomas Jefferson Building Thomas Jefferson Center for the Protection of Free Expression Jefferson Lecture Jefferson National Expansion Memorial Thomas Jefferson Star for Foreign Service Karl Bitter statues University of Virginia statue Jefferson Literary and Debating Society Thomas Jefferson Foundation Thomas Jefferson National Accelerator Facility Monticello Association Jefferson City, Missouri Jefferson College Thomas Jefferson School of Law Thomas Jefferson University Washington and Jefferson National Forests Peaks and mountains Other placenames Jefferson–Jackson Day Currency depictions Jefferson nickel Two-dollar bill Louisiana Purchase Exposition dollar 250th Anniversary silver dollar U.S. postage stamps Popular culture Ben and Me (1953 short) 1776 (1969 musical 1972 film) Jefferson in Paris (1995 film) Thomas Jefferson (1997 film) Liberty! (1997 documentary series) Liberty's Kids (2002 animated series) John Adams (2008 miniseries) Jefferson's Garden (2015 play) Hamilton (2015 musical) Washington (2020 miniseries) Wine bottles controversy Family Martha Jefferson (wife) Martha Jefferson Randolph (daughter) Mary Jefferson Eppes (daughter) Harriet Hemings (daughter) Madison Hemings (son) Eston Hemings (son) Thomas J. Randolph (grandson) Francis Eppes (grandson) George W. Randolph (grandson) John Wayles Jefferson (grandson) Peter Jefferson (father) Jane Randolph Jefferson (mother) Lucy Jefferson Lewis (sister) Randolph Jefferson (brother) Isham Randolph (grandfather) William Randolph (great-grandfather) ← John Adams James Madison → Category Offices and distinctions Political offices Preceded by Patrick Henry Governor of Virginia 1779–1781 Succeeded by William Fleming Preceded by John Jay Acting United States Secretary of State 1790–1793 Succeeded by Edmund Randolph Preceded by John Adams Vice President of the United States 1797–1801 Succeeded by Aaron Burr President of the United States 1801–1809 Succeeded by James Madison Diplomatic posts Preceded by Benjamin Franklin United States Minister to France 1785–1789 Succeeded by William Short Party political offices New political party Democratic-Republican nominee for President of the United States 1796¹, 1800, 1804 Succeeded by James Madison Notes and references 1. Prior to the passage of the Twelfth Amendment in 1804, each presidential elector would cast two ballots; the highest vote-getter would become president and the runner-up would become vice president. Thus, in 1796, the Democratic-Republican Party fielded Jefferson as a presidential candidate, but he came in second and therefore became vice president. Articles related to Thomas Jefferson v t e Signers of the United States Declaration of Independence Physical history of the Declaration of Independence, Memorial to the 56 Signers J. Adams S. Adams Bartlett Braxton Carroll Chase Clark Clymer Ellery Floyd Franklin Gerry Gwinnett Hall Hancock Harrison Hart Hewes Heyward Hooper Hopkins Hopkinson Huntington Jefferson F. Lee R. Lee Lewis Livingston Lynch McKean Middleton L. Morris R. Morris Morton Nelson Paca Paine Penn Read Rodney Ross Rush Rutledge Sherman Smith Stockton Stone Taylor Thornton Walton Whipple Williams Wilson Witherspoon Wolcott Wythe v t e Presidents of the United States George Washington (1789–1797) John Adams (1797–1801) Thomas Jefferson (1801–1809) James Madison (1809–1817) James Monroe (1817–1825) John Quincy Adams (1825–1829) Andrew Jackson (1829–1837) Martin Van Buren (1837–1841) William Henry Harrison (1841) John Tyler (1841–1845) James K. Polk (1845–1849) Zachary Taylor (1849–1850) Millard Fillmore (1850–1853) Franklin Pierce (1853–1857) James Buchanan (1857–1861) Abraham Lincoln (1861–1865) Andrew Johnson (1865–1869) Ulysses S. Grant (1869–1877) Rutherford B. Hayes (1877–1881) James A. Garfield (1881) Chester A. Arthur (1881–1885) Grover Cleveland (1885–1889) Benjamin Harrison (1889–1893) Grover Cleveland (1893–1897) William McKinley (1897–1901) Theodore Roosevelt (1901–1909) William Howard Taft (1909–1913) Woodrow Wilson (1913–1921) Warren G. Harding (1921–1923) Calvin Coolidge (1923–1929) Herbert Hoover (1929–1933) Franklin D. Roosevelt (1933–1945) Harry S. Truman (1945–1953) Dwight D. Eisenhower (1953–1961) John F. Kennedy (1961–1963) Lyndon B. Johnson (1963–1969) Richard Nixon (1969–1974) Gerald Ford (1974–1977) Jimmy Carter (1977–1981) Ronald Reagan (1981–1989) George H. W. Bush (1989–1993) Bill Clinton (1993–2001) George W. Bush (2001–2009) Barack Obama (2009–2017) Donald Trump (2017–present) Presidency timelines T. Roosevelt Wilson Harding Coolidge Hoover F. D. Roosevelt Truman Eisenhower Kennedy L. B. Johnson Nixon Ford Carter Reagan G. H. W. Bush Clinton G. W. Bush Obama Trump Book Category List v t e Vice Presidents of the United States John Adams (1789–1797) Thomas Jefferson (1797–1801) Aaron Burr (1801–1805) George Clinton (1805–1812) Elbridge Gerry (1813–1814) Daniel D. Tompkins (1817–1825) John C. Calhoun (1825–1832) Martin Van Buren (1833–1837) Richard M. Johnson (1837–1841) John Tyler (1841) George M. Dallas (1845–1849) Millard Fillmore (1849–1850) William R. King (1853) John C. Breckinridge (1857–1861) Hannibal Hamlin (1861–1865) Andrew Johnson (1865) Schuyler Colfax (1869–1873) Henry Wilson (1873–1875) William A. Wheeler (1877–1881) Chester A. Arthur (1881) Thomas A. Hendricks (1885) Levi P. Morton (1889–1893) Adlai Stevenson (1893–1897) Garret Hobart (1897–1899) Theodore Roosevelt (1901) Charles W. Fairbanks (1905–1909) James S. Sherman (1909–1912) Thomas R. Marshall (1913–1921) Calvin Coolidge (1921–1923) Charles G. Dawes (1925–1929) Charles Curtis (1929–1933) John N. Garner (1933–1941) Henry A. Wallace (1941–1945) Harry S. Truman (1945) Alben W. Barkley (1949–1953) Richard Nixon (1953–1961) Lyndon B. Johnson (1961–1963) Hubert Humphrey (1965–1969) Spiro Agnew (1969–1973) Gerald Ford (1973–1974) Nelson Rockefeller (1974–1977) Walter Mondale (1977–1981) George H. W. Bush (1981–1989) Dan Quayle (1989–1993) Al Gore (1993–2001) Dick Cheney (2001–2009) Joe Biden (2009–2017) Mike Pence (2017–present) Category List v t e United States Secretaries of State Secretary of Foreign Affairs 1781–89 R. Livingston Jay Secretary of State 1789–present Jefferson Randolph Pickering J. Marshall Madison Smith Monroe Adams Clay Van Buren E. Livingston McLane Forsyth Webster Upshur Calhoun Buchanan Clayton Webster Everett Marcy Cass Black Seward Washburne Fish Evarts Blaine Frelinghuysen Bayard Blaine Foster Gresham Olney Sherman Day Hay Root Bacon Knox Bryan Lansing Colby Hughes Kellogg Stimson Hull Stettinius Byrnes G. Marshall Acheson Dulles Herter Rusk Rogers Kissinger Vance Muskie Haig Shultz Baker Eagleburger Christopher Albright Powell Rice (tenure) Clinton (tenure) Kerry (tenure) Tillerson Pompeo v t e Governors of Virginia Colony of Virginia Wingfield Ratcliffe Scrivener Smith Percy Gates De La Warr Dale Yeardley Argall Wyatt West Pott Harvey West Berkeley Bennett Digges Mathews Colepeper Howard of Effingham Andros Nicholson Nott Jenings Hunter Orkney (absentee) Spotswood Drysdale "King" Carter Gooch Albemarle (absentee) Gooch Lee Burwell (acting) Dinwiddie Loudoun Fauquier Amherst (absentee) Fauquier Botetourt W. Nelson Dunmore Commonwealth of Virginia Henry Jefferson Fleming T. Nelson B. Harrison Henry E. Randolph B. Randolph H. Lee Brooke Wood Monroe Page Cabell Tyler Sr. G. Smith Monroe G. Smith P. Randolph Barbour Nicholas Preston T. Randolph Pleasants Tyler Jr. Giles J. Floyd Tazewell Robertson Campbell Gilmer Patton Rutherfoord Gregory McDowell W. "EB" Smith J. B. Floyd Johnson Wise Letcher W. "EB" Smith Pierpont Wells Walker Kemper Holliday Cameron F. Lee McKinney O'Ferrall J. H. Tyler Montague Swanson Mann Stuart Davis Trinkle Byrd Pollard Peery Price Darden Tuck Battle Stanley Almond A. Harrison Godwin Holton Godwin Dalton Robb Baliles Wilder Allen Gilmore Warner Kaine McDonnell McAuliffe Northam v t e United States Ambassadors to France Envoys to France (1776–1779) Franklin, Lee & Deane/Adams Ministers Plenipotentiary to France (1778–1815) Franklin Jefferson Short Morris Monroe Pinckney Livingston Armstrong Russell (chargé d'affaires) Barlow Crawford Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to France (1816–1893) Gallatin Brown Rives Harris (chargé d'affaires) Livingston Barton (chargé d'affaires) Cass King Rush Rives Mason Faulkner Dayton Bigelow Dix Washburne Noyes Morton McLane Reid Coolidge Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to France (1893–present) Eustis Porter McCormick White Bacon Herrick Sharp Wallace Herrick Edge Straus Bullitt Leahy Tuck (chargé d'affaires) Caffery Bruce Dunn Dillon Houghton Gavin Bohlen Shriver Watson Irwin Rush Hartman Galbraith Rodgers Curley Harriman Rohatyn Leach Stapleton Rivkin Hartley McCourt v t e Democratic-Republican Party Anti-Administration Party First Party System Jeffersonian democracy Era of Good Feelings Presidency of Thomas Jefferson Presidency of James Madison Presidency of James Monroe Tertium quids Presidential tickets 1796: Thomas Jefferson/Aaron Burr 1800: Thomas Jefferson/Aaron Burr 1804: Thomas Jefferson/George Clinton 1808: James Madison/George Clinton 1812: James Madison/Elbridge Gerry 1816: James Monroe/Daniel D. Tompkins 1820: James Monroe/Daniel D. Tompkins 1824: John Quincy Adams/John C. Calhoun Andrew Jackson/John C. Calhoun William H. Crawford/Nathaniel Macon Henry Clay/Nathan Sanford U.S. House Speakers Frederick Muhlenberg (1793–1795) Nathaniel Macon (1801–1807) Joseph Bradley Varnum (1807–1811) Henry Clay (1811–1814) Langdon Cheves (1814–1815) Henry Clay (1815–1820) John W. Taylor (1820–1821) Philip Pendleton Barbour (1821–1823) Henry Clay (1823–1825) U.S. Cabinet State Thomas Jefferson (1790–1794) Levi Lincoln Sr. (1801) James Madison (1801–1809) Robert Smith (1809–1811) James Monroe (1811–1817) John Graham (1817) John Quincy Adams (1817–1825) Treasury Albert Gallatin (1801–1814) George W. Campbell (1814) Alexander J. Dallas (1814–1816) William Jones (1816) William H. Crawford (1816–1825) War Henry Dearborn (1801–1809) William Eustis (1809–1813) John Armstrong Jr. (1813–1814) James Monroe (1814–1815) Alexander J. Dallas (1815) William H. Crawford (1815–1816) George Graham (1816–1817) John C. Calhoun (1817–1825) Attorney General Levi Lincoln Sr. (1801–1805) John Breckinridge (1805–1806) Caesar Augustus Rodney (1807–1811) William Pinkney (1811–1814) William Wirt (1817–1825) Navy Robert Smith (1801–1809) Paul Hamilton (1809–1813) William Jones (1813–1814) Benjamin Williams Crowninshield (1815–1818) Smith Thompson (1819–1823) Samuel L. Southard (1823–1825) v t e Unsuccessful major party candidates for President of the United States Thomas Jefferson (1796) John Adams (1800) Charles C. Pinckney (1804, 1808) DeWitt Clinton (1812) Rufus King (1816) Andrew Jackson (1824) William H. Crawford (1824) Henry Clay (1824, 1832, 1844) John Quincy Adams (1828) William Henry Harrison (1836) Hugh Lawson White (1836) Martin Van Buren (1840) Lewis Cass (1848) Winfield Scott (1852) John C. Frémont (1856) Stephen A. Douglas (1860) George B. McClellan (1864) Horatio Seymour (1868) Horace Greeley (1872) Samuel J. Tilden (1876) Winfield Scott Hancock (1880) James G. Blaine (1884) Grover Cleveland (1888) Benjamin Harrison (1892) William J. Bryan (1896, 1900, 1908) Alton B. Parker (1904) William Howard Taft (1912) Charles Evans Hughes (1916) James M. Cox (1920) John W. Davis (1924) Al Smith (1928) Herbert Hoover (1932) Alf Landon (1936) Wendell Willkie (1940) Thomas E. Dewey (1944, 1948) Adlai Stevenson (1952, 1956) Richard Nixon (1960) Barry Goldwater (1964) Hubert Humphrey (1968) George McGovern (1972) Gerald Ford (1976) Jimmy Carter (1980) Walter Mondale (1984) Michael Dukakis (1988) George H. W. Bush (1992) Bob Dole (1996) Al Gore (2000) John Kerry (2004) John McCain (2008) Mitt Romney (2012) Hillary Clinton (2016) All presidential candidates Presidents Third party candidates v t e Age of Enlightenment Topics Atheism Capitalism Civil liberties Counter-Enlightenment Critical thinking Deism Democracy Empiricism Encyclopédistes Enlightened absolutism Free markets Haskalah Humanism Human rights Liberalism Liberté, égalité, fraternité Methodological skepticism Nationalism Natural philosophy Objectivity Rationality Rationalism Reason Reductionism Sapere aude Science Scientific method Socialism Universality Weimar Classicism Thinkers France Jean le Rond d'Alembert René Louis d'Argenson Pierre Bayle Pierre Beaumarchais Nicolas Chamfort Émilie du Châtelet Étienne Bonnot de Condillac Marquis de Condorcet René Descartes Denis Diderot Bernard Le Bovier de Fontenelle Claude Adrien Helvétius Baron d'Holbach Louis de Jaucourt Julien Offray de La Mettrie Georges-Louis Leclerc Gabriel Bonnot de Mably Sylvain Maréchal Jean Meslier Montesquieu Étienne-Gabriel Morelly Blaise Pascal François Quesnay Guillaume Thomas François Raynal Marquis de Sade Anne Robert Jacques Turgot Voltaire Geneva Firmin Abauzit Charles Bonnet Jean-Jacques Burlamaqui Jean-Louis de Lolme Pierre Prévost Jean-Jacques Rousseau Antoine-Jacques Roustan Horace Bénédict de Saussure Jacob Vernes Jacob Vernet Germany Justus Henning Böhmer Johann Wolfgang von Goethe Johann Gottfried von Herder Theodor Gottlieb von Hippel Wilhelm von Humboldt Immanuel Kant Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz Gotthold Ephraim Lessing Georg Christoph Lichtenberg Moses Mendelssohn Samuel von Pufendorf Friedrich Schiller Christian Thomasius Gabriel Wagner Christian Felix Weiße Christoph Martin Wieland Thomas Wizenmann Christian Wolff Greece Neophytos Doukas Theoklitos Farmakidis Rigas Feraios Theophilos Kairis Adamantios Korais Ireland Robert Boyle Edmund Burke John Toland Italy Cesare Beccaria Gaetano Filangieri Ferdinando Galiani Luigi Galvani Antonio Genovesi Francesco Mario Pagano Giovanni Salvemini Pietro Verri Giambattista Vico Netherlands Balthasar Bekker Pieter de la Court Petrus Cunaeus Hugo Grotius François Hemsterhuis Christiaan Huygens Adriaan Koerbagh Frederik van Leenhof Antonie van Leeuwenhoek Bernard Nieuwentyt Baruch Spinoza Jan Swammerdam Hendrik Wyermars Poland Tadeusz Czacki Hugo Kołłątaj Stanisław Konarski Ignacy Krasicki Julian Ursyn Niemcewicz Stanisław August Poniatowski Jędrzej Śniadecki Stanisław Staszic Józef Wybicki Andrzej Stanisław Załuski Józef Andrzej Załuski Portugal Sebastião José de Carvalho e Melo Romania Ion Budai-Deleanu Dinicu Golescu Petru Maior Samuil Micu-Klein Gheorghe Șincai Russia Catherine II Denis Fonvizin Mikhail Kheraskov Mikhail Lomonosov Nikolay Novikov Alexander Radishchev Yekaterina Vorontsova-Dashkova Serbia Dositej Obradović Avram Mrazović Spain José Cadalso Charles III Benito Jerónimo Feijóo y Montenegro Leandro Fernández de Moratín Valentin de Foronda Gaspar Melchor de Jovellanos Martín Sarmiento Diego de Torres Villarroel United Kingdom (Scotland) Joseph Addison Francis Bacon James Beattie Jeremy Bentham George Berkeley Joseph Black Hugh Blair James Boswell James Burnett, Lord Monboddo Anthony Collins Adam Ferguson Edward Gibbon Robert Hooke David Hume Francis Hutcheson Samuel Johnson John Locke John Millar Isaac Newton William Ogilvie Richard Price Joseph Priestley Thomas Reid Shaftesbury Adam Smith Dugald Stewart Mary Wollstonecraft United States Benjamin Franklin Thomas Jefferson James Madison George Mason Thomas Paine Category v t e Liberalism Development Contributions to liberal theory History of liberalism Ideas Civil and political rights Democracy Economic freedom Egalitarianism Free market Free trade Freedom of the press Freedom of religion Freedom of speech Gender equality Harm principle Internationalism Laissez-faire Liberty Market economy Natural and legal rights Natural law Negative/Positive liberty Open society Permissive society Private property Rule of law Secularism Separation of church and state Social contract Welfare state Schools Anarcho-capitalism Classical Radical Left-libertarianism Geolibertarianism Right-libertarianism Liberal conservatism Constitutional patriotism Civic nationalism Conservative Cultural Democratic Economic Green Liberal feminism Equity feminism Liberal internationalism Liberal socialism Social democracy Muscular National Neo Ordo Radical centrism Religious Christian Islamic Secular Social Techno Third Way Key figures Acton Alain Alberdi Alembert Arnold Aron Barante Bastiat Bentham Berlin Beveridge Bobbio Brentano Bright Broglie Burke Čapek Cassirer Chicherin Chu Chydenius Cobden Collingdood Condorcet Constant Croce Cuoco Dahrendorf Decy Dewey Dickens Diderot Dongsun Dunoyer Dworkin Emerson Eötvös Flach Friedman Galbraith Garrison George Gladstone Gobetti Gomes Gray Green Gu Guizot Hayek Herbert Hobbes Hobhouse Hobson Holbach Hu Humboldt Jefferson Jubani Kant Kelsen Kemal Keynes Korais Korwin-Mikke Kymplcka Lamartine Larra Lecky Li Locke Lufti Macaulay Madariaga Madison Martineau Masani Michelet Mill (father) Mill (son) Milton Mises Molteno Mommsen Money Montalembert Montesquieu Mora Mouffe Naoroji Naumann Nozick Nussbaum Ohlin Ortega Paine Paton Popper Price Priestley Prieto Quesnay Qin Ramírez Rathenau Rawls Raz Renan Renouvier Ricardo Röpke Rorthy Rosmini Rosselli Rousseau Ruggiero Sarmiento Say Sen Earl of Shaftesbury Shklar Sidney Sieyès Şinasi Sismondi Smith Soto Polar Spencer Spinoza Staël Sumner Tahtawi Tao Thierry Thorbecke Thoreau Tocqueville Tracy Troeltsch Turgot Villemain Voltaire Ward Weber Wollstonecraft Zambrano Regional variants Africa Egypt Nigeria Senegal South Africa Tunisia Zimbabwe Asia China Hong Kong India Iran Israel Japan South Korea Philippines Taiwan Thailand Turkey Europe Albania Armenia Austria Belgium Bulgaria Croatia Cyprus Czech lands Denmark Estonia Finland France Germany Greece Hungary Iceland Italy Latvia Lithuania Luxembourg Macedonia Moldova Montenegro Netherlands Norway Poland Portugal Romania Russia Serbia Slovakia Slovenia Spain Sweden Switzerland Ukraine United Kingdom Latin America and the Caribbean Bolivia Brazil Chile Colombia Cuba Ecuador Honduras Mexico Nicaragua Panama Paraguay Peru Uruguay North America Canada United States Classical Modern Oceania Australia New Zealand Organisations Africa Liberal Network Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe Party Arab Liberal Federation Council of Asian Liberals and Democrats European Democratic Party European Liberal Youth European Party for Individual Liberty International Alliance of Libertarian Parties International Federation of Liberal Youth Liberal International Liberal Network for Latin America Liberal parties Liberal South East European Network See also Bias in academia Bias in the media Liberalism portal v t e Social and political philosophy Ancient philosophers Aristotle Chanakya Cicero Confucius Han Fei Lactantius Laozi Mencius Mozi Origen Plato Polybius Shang Socrates Sun Tzu Tertullian Thucydides Valluvar Xenophon Xunzi Medieval philosophers Augustine Averroes Baldus Bartolus Bruni Dante Gelasius al-Ghazali Giles Hostiensis Ibn Khaldun John of Paris John of Salisbury Latini Maimonides Marsilius Muhammad Nizam al-Mulk Photios Thomas Aquinas Wang William of Ockham Early modern philosophers Beza Bodin Bossuet Botero Buchanan Calvin Cumberland Duplessis-Mornay Erasmus Filmer Grotius Guicciardini Harrington Hayashi Hobbes Hotman Huang Leibniz Locke Luther Machiavelli Malebranche Mariana Milton Montaigne More Müntzer Naudé Pufendorf Rohan Sansovino Sidney Spinoza Suárez 18th–19th-century philosophers Bakunin Bentham Bonald Bosanquet Burke Comte Constant Emerson Engels Fichte Fourier Franklin Godwin Hamann Hegel Herder Hume Jefferson Justi Kant political philosophy Kierkegaard Le Bon Le Play Maistre Marx Mazzini Mill Montesquieu Möser Nietzsche Novalis Paine Renan Rousseau Royce Sade Schiller Smith Spencer Stirner Taine Thoreau Tocqueville Vico Vivekananda Voltaire 20th–21st-century philosophers Adorno Ambedkar Arendt Aurobindo Aron Azurmendi Badiou Baudrillard Bauman Benoist Berlin Bernstein Butler Camus Chomsky De Beauvoir Debord Du Bois Durkheim Dworkin Foucault Gandhi Gauthier Gehlen Gentile Gramsci Habermas Hayek Heidegger Irigaray Kautsky Kirk Kropotkin Laclau Lenin Luxemburg Mao Mansfield Marcuse Maritain Michels Mises Mou Mouffe Negri Niebuhr Nozick Nursî Oakeshott Ortega Pareto Pettit Plamenatz Polanyi Popper Qutb Radhakrishnan Rand Rawls Rothbard Russell Santayana Sartre Scanlon Schmitt Searle Shariati Simmel Simonović Skinner Sombart Sorel Spann Spirito Strauss Sun Taylor Walzer Weber Žižek Social theories Anarchism Authoritarianism Collectivism Communism Communitarianism Conflict theories Confucianism Consensus theory Conservatism Contractualism Cosmopolitanism Culturalism Fascism Feminist political theory Gandhism Individualism Islam Islamism Legalism Liberalism Libertarianism Mohism National liberalism Republicanism Social constructionism Social constructivism Social Darwinism Social determinism Socialism Utilitarianism Concepts Civil disobedience Democracy Four occupations Justice Law Mandate of Heaven Peace Property Revolution Rights Social contract Society War more... Related articles Jurisprudence Philosophy and economics Philosophy of education Philosophy of history Philosophy of love Philosophy of sex Philosophy of social science Political ethics Social epistemology Category v t e Cabinet of President George Washington (1789–1797) Secretary of Foreign Affairs John Jay (1789) Secretary of State John Jay (1789–1790) Thomas Jefferson (1790–1793) Edmund Randolph (1794–95) Timothy Pickering (1795–1797) Secretary of the Treasury Alexander Hamilton (1789–1795) Oliver Wolcott Jr. (1795–1797) Secretary of War Henry Knox (1789–1794) Timothy Pickering (1795) James McHenry (1796–97) Attorney General Edmund Randolph (1789–1794) William Bradford (1794–95) Charles Lee (1795–1797) Postmaster General Samuel Osgood (1789–1791) Timothy Pickering (1791–1795) Joseph Habersham (1795–1797) v t e Cabinet of President Thomas Jefferson (1801–1809) Secretary of State James Madison (1801–1809) Secretary of the Treasury Samuel Dexter (1801) Albert Gallatin (1801–1809) Secretary of War Henry Dearborn (1801–1809) Attorney General Levi Lincoln Sr. (1801–1804) Robert Smith (1805) John Breckinridge (1805–06) Caesar A. Rodney (1807–1809) Postmaster General Joseph Habersham (1801) Gideon Granger (1801–1809) Secretary of the Navy Benjamin Stoddert (1801) Robert Smith (1801–1809) v t e Hall of Fame for Great Americans John Adams John Quincy Adams Jane Addams Louis Agassiz Susan B. Anthony John James Audubon George Bancroft Clara Barton Henry Ward Beecher Alexander Graham Bell Daniel Boone Edwin Booth Louis Brandeis Phillips Brooks William Cullen Bryant Luther Burbank Andrew Carnegie George Washington Carver William Ellery Channing Rufus Choate Henry Clay Grover Cleveland James Fenimore Cooper Peter Cooper Charlotte Cushman James Buchanan Eads Thomas Alva Edison Jonathan Edwards Ralph Waldo Emerson David Farragut Stephen Foster Benjamin Franklin Robert Fulton Josiah W. Gibbs William C. Gorgas Ulysses S. Grant Asa Gray Alexander Hamilton Nathaniel Hawthorne Joseph Henry Patrick Henry Oliver Wendell Holmes Sr. Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr. Mark Hopkins Elias Howe Washington Irving Andrew Jackson Thomas J. Jackson Thomas Jefferson John Paul Jones James Kent Sidney Lanier Robert E. Lee Abraham Lincoln Henry Wadsworth Longfellow James Russell Lowell Mary Lyon Edward MacDowell James Madison Horace Mann John Marshall Matthew Fontaine Maury Albert A. Michelson Maria Mitchell James Monroe Samuel F. B. Morse William T. G. Morton John Lothrop Motley Simon Newcomb Thomas Paine Alice Freeman Palmer Francis Parkman George Peabody William Penn Edgar Allan Poe Walter Reed Franklin D. Roosevelt Theodore Roosevelt Augustus Saint-Gaudens William Tecumseh Sherman John Philip Sousa Joseph Story Harriet Beecher Stowe Gilbert Stuart Sylvanus Thayer Henry David Thoreau Mark Twain Lillian Wald Booker T. Washington George Washington Daniel Webster George Westinghouse James McNeill Whistler Walt Whitman Eli Whitney John Greenleaf Whittier Emma Willard Frances E. Willard Roger Williams Woodrow Wilson Orville Wright Wilbur Wright Biography portal American Revolutionary War portal Virginia portal Philosophy portal Politics portal Law portal United States portal Authority control BNE: XX984485 BNF: cb12085503q (data) CANTIC: a12128843 GND: 118711962 ISNI: 0000 0001 2129 7235 LCCN: n79089957 MusicBrainz: 18914f04-2c67-4f86-9e8b-068c51d59c09 NARA: 10581911 NDL: 00444617 NKC: jn20000720116 NLA: 36059865 NLG: 72781 NLK: KAC199613840 NTA: 070589712 RKD: 42116 SELIBR: 191576 SNAC: w60d5jrb SUDOC: 027325628 Trove: 1204307 ULAN: 500017255 US Congress: J000069 VIAF: 41866059 WorldCat Identities: lccn-n79089957 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Thomas_Jefferson&oldid=953218207" Categories: Thomas Jefferson 1743 births 1826 deaths 18th-century American philosophers 18th-century American politicians 18th-century American writers 19th-century American philosophers 19th-century American politicians 19th-century Presidents of the United States Ambassadors of the United States to France American architects American book and manuscript collectors American colonization movement American deists American foreign policy writers American gardeners American inventors American lawyers admitted to the practice of law by reading law American male non-fiction writers American Neoclassical architects American people of English descent American people of Welsh descent American planters American political party founders American political philosophers American political writers American religious skeptics American slave owners American surveyors Burials at Monticello Candidates in the 1792 United States presidential election Candidates in the 1796 United States presidential election Candidates in the 1800 United States presidential election Candidates in the 1804 United States presidential election College of William & Mary alumni Continental Congressmen from Virginia Democratic-Republican Party Presidents of the United States Democratic-Republican Party Vice Presidents of the United States Disease-related deaths in Virginia Enlightenment philosophers Fellows of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences Governors of Virginia Hall of Fame for Great Americans inductees History of the United States (1789–1849) House of Burgesses members Independent scientists Jefferson family Members of the American Antiquarian Society Members of the American Philosophical Society Members of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences Members of the Virginia House of Delegates People from Monticello People of the American Enlightenment Philosophers from Virginia Physiocrats Pre-19th-century cryptographers Presidents of the United States Randolph family of Virginia Signers of the United States Declaration of Independence United States Secretaries of State University and college founders University of Virginia people Vice Presidents of the United States Virginia colonial people Virginia Democratic-Republicans Virginia lawyers Washington administration cabinet members Writers from Virginia Writers of American Southern literature Hidden categories: CS1: Julian–Gregorian uncertainty Use American English from April 2020 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Articles with short description Wikipedia indefinitely move-protected pages Wikipedia pages semi-protected against vandalism Use mdy dates from April 2020 All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from October 2019 Spoken articles Articles with hAudio microformats Articles with Project Gutenberg links Articles with Internet Archive links Articles with LibriVox links Articles containing French-language text Articles containing Hebrew-language text Articles containing Latin-language text Wikipedia articles with BNE identifiers Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers Wikipedia articles with CANTIC identifiers Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers Wikipedia articles with MusicBrainz identifiers Wikipedia articles with NARA identifiers Wikipedia articles with NDL identifiers Wikipedia articles with NKC identifiers Wikipedia articles with NLA identifiers Wikipedia articles with NLG identifiers Wikipedia articles with NLK identifiers Wikipedia articles with NTA identifiers Wikipedia articles with RKDartists identifiers Wikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiers Wikipedia articles with SNAC-ID identifiers Wikipedia articles with SUDOC identifiers Wikipedia articles with Trove identifiers Wikipedia articles with ULAN identifiers Wikipedia articles with USCongress identifiers Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers Wikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read View source View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikiquote Wikisource Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Afrikaans Alemannisch አማርኛ Ænglisc العربية Aragonés Asturianu Avañe'ẽ Aymar aru Azərbaycanca تۆرکجه বাংলা Bân-lâm-gú Беларуская Беларуская (тарашкевіца)‎ Bikol Central Bislama Български Bosanski Brezhoneg Català Чӑвашла Cebuano Čeština Corsu Cymraeg Dansk Deutsch ދިވެހިބަސް Eesti Ελληνικά Español Esperanto Euskara فارسی Føroyskt Français Frysk Gaeilge Gaelg Gàidhlig Galego 客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî 한국어 Hausa Հայերեն हिन्दी Hornjoserbsce Hrvatski Ido Ilokano Bahasa Indonesia Interlingua Íslenska Italiano עברית Jawa ಕನ್ನಡ Kapampangan ქართული Қазақша Kernowek Kinyarwanda Kiswahili Kreyòl ayisyen Kurdî Кыргызча Latina Latviešu Lëtzebuergesch Lietuvių Ligure Limburgs Lingua Franca Nova Lumbaart Magyar मैथिली Македонски Malagasy മലയാളം मराठी მარგალური مصرى مازِرونی Bahasa Melayu Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄ မြန်မာဘာသာ Nederlands नेपाली नेपाल भाषा 日本語 Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Occitan Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча ਪੰਜਾਬੀ پنجابی Piemontèis Plattdüütsch Polski Português Română Runa Simi Русский Саха тыла संस्कृतम् Sardu Scots Shqip Sicilianu සිංහල Simple English Slovenčina Slovenščina کوردی Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Suomi Svenska Tagalog தமிழ் Татарча/tatarça తెలుగు ไทย Тоҷикӣ Türkçe Türkmençe Українська اردو Tiếng Việt 文言 Winaray 吴语 ייִדיש Yorùbá 粵語 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 26 April 2020, at 08:15 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view