https://www.nytimes.com/section/books
Books - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Books Today’s Paper AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Arts Books Book Review Best Sellers By the Book Crime Children’s Books Book Review Podcast Now Read This Globetrotting Highlights Photo Credit Books of The Times The Life of a Philosopher for Whom Life Was the Main Question Kierkegaard, called the father of existentialism, pondered what it means to be human in the world. Clare Carlisle’s biography, “Philosopher of the Heart,” arrives amid a fad for his work. By Parul Sehgal Photo CreditAssociation Élisabeth Lacoin Coming Soon: New Fiction From Simone de Beauvoir “The Inseparables,” a novel Beauvoir abandoned in 1954, tells the story of a doomed friendship based on one from her own childhood. By Alexandra Alter and Laura Cappelle Photo Credit 11 Books to Watch For in May A prequel to “The Hunger Games,” a love letter to French cooking, a novel by Curtis Sittenfeld that reimagines Hillary Clinton’s life and much more. By Joumana Khatib Photo Credit Books of The Times John Grisham Returns to Camino Island, This Time in Hurricane Season In “Camino Winds,” a bookstore owner and two other characters team up to solve a murder and the mystery behind it. By Janet Maslin Photo CreditThoka Mayer Globetrotting Your sneak preview of books coming out in 2020 from around the world. By The New York Times, Gray Beltran, Rebecca Lieberman and Tammy Tarng Photo Credit The Year You Finally Read a Book About Climate Change If the 50th anniversary of Earth Day has inspired you to finally read a book about climate change, we’re here to help you find just the right one. Graphic Content Photo CreditTian Veasna Comics That Stare Into the Face of Terror and Loneliness In her latest Graphic Content column, Hillary Chute looks at emotionally stirring graphic novels from Cambodia and Japan. By Hillary Chute The Book Review Podcast Photo Credit The Shocks and Aftershocks of the Great Alaska Quake of 1964 Jon Mooallem talks about “This Is Chance!” and Elisabeth Egan discusses Charlie Mackesy’s “The Boy, the Mole, the Fox and the Horse.” Best Sellers Photo Credit Best-Seller Lists: May 3, 2020 All the lists: print, e-books, fiction, nonfiction, children’s books and more. AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Books of The TimesMore in Books of The Times » Photo Credit Barbara Ehrenreich Contains Multitudes. They’re All Ticked Off. The essays in “Had I Known” cover four decades in Ehrenreich’s varied career, and reveal that one commonality has been her tough, acerbic voice. By Jennifer Szalai Photo Credit A Virus Upends the World in a Sweeping New Novel Lawrence Wright’s “The End of October” is about the scientific challenge, political turmoil and social horror of a pandemic. By Dwight Garner Photo CreditImperial War Museum The Female Doctors Who Fought to Serve in World War I In “No Man’s Land,” Wendy Moore chronicles the remarkable story of two physicians who founded and ran a military hospital in London. By Sarah Lyall Photo Credit Dementia Patients Aren’t in Their ‘Perfect Mind.’ Then Again, Who Is? In “On Vanishing,” Lynn Casteel Harper argues that society needs a better approach to understand and care for people who are suffering cognitive decline. By Parul Sehgal Photo Credit ‘A Curious History of Sex’ Covers Aphrodisiacs, Bicycles, Graham Crackers and More Kate Lister’s book is mostly a romp rather than an especially serious or comprehensive work of history or criticism. By Dwight Garner Latest Search Search Clear this text input Online Auction to Aid Comic-Book Shops Raises Over $430,000 Comic-book creators contributed their work, and buyers made their bids on Twitter, to help employees and businesses upended by the coronavirus. By George Gene Gustines Tech Tip Create Your Own Digital Comics Whether You Can Draw or Not Even if you can’t draw a stick person, you can still express yourself and tell stories through the time-honored tradition of sequential art. By J. D. Biersdorfer Audiobooks What the History Books Won’t Tell You About George Washington Alexis Coe’s “You Never Forget Your First” updates the male-dominated narrative of the founding father. By Tatiana Schlossberg Eavan Boland, ‘Disruptive’ Irish Poet, Is Dead at 75 Her work addressed domestic themes seldom found in the male-dominated world of Irish poetry and won her many accolades. By Neil Genzlinger Children’s Books ‘This Is How It Is Now’: Ramona Quimby, Meet Ryan Hart In “Ways to Make Sunshine,” Renée Watson gives us a new spin on Beverly Cleary’s beloved heroine and a timely primer on how kids can navigate a world of change that’s coming at them fast. By Veronica Chambers ‘The Celestial Hunter,’ by Roberto Calasso: An Excerpt An excerpt from “The Celestial Hunter,” by Roberto Calasso ‘Little Family,’ by Ishmael Beah: An Excerpt An excerpt from “Little Family,” by Ishmael Beah The Fix Finally There’s Time to Read (or at Least Organize Your Books) Books tell a story about who you are. Here’s how to make it an interesting one. By Tim McKeough The Community Cookbook Is Reborn for a Time of Scarcity and Sharing Cobbled-together home recipe collections were once the province of church groups and Scout troops, but now they’re uniting Americans of all stripes. By Priya Krishna Fiction A ‘Little Family’ Against the World In Ishmael Beah’s new novel, a makeshift home of adolescents is forced to confront the ugliest side of adulthood. By Chigozie Obioma Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Best Sellers Inside The New York Times Book Review Podcast By the Book Crime Children's Books Bookends AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Dwight Garner Parul Sehgal Jennifer Szalai Follow Us @nytimesbookstwitter page for @nytimesbooks nytbooksfacebook page for nytbooks @DwightGarnertwitter page for @DwightGarner parul_sehgaltwitter page for parul_sehgal jenszalaitwitter page for jenszalai @xanaltertwitter page for @xanalter @PamelaPaulNYTtwitter page for @PamelaPaulNYT Subscribe to the Book Review Browse back issues of the Book Review from 1997–2015 Books F.A.Q. Email the Book Review Sign Up for the Book Review Newsletter Every Friday, be the first to see reviews, news and features in The New York Times Book Review.SIGN UP Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions