https://www.nytimes.com/section/food
Food - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Food Today’s Paper AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Food Wine, Beer & Cocktails Restaurant Reviews Highlights Photo CreditAya Brackett for The New York Times Samin Nosrat Wants Us to Make Lasagna Together The “Salt Fat Acid Heat” authorhas long gathered people around a table.But what will happen when the festivities move to that sometimes-terrible place, the internet? By Samin Nosrat Photo CreditMatthew Freire for The New York Times The Community Cookbook Is Reborn for a Time of Scarcity and Sharing Cobbled-together home recipe collections were once the province of church groups and Scout troops, but now they’re uniting Americans of all stripes. By Priya Krishna Photo CreditTaylor Glascock for The New York Times Fat Rice, an Acclaimed Chicago Restaurant, Shifts to Meal Kits The owners say their new business isn’t a stopgap, but a lasting transformation to meet the demands of a new era. By Brett Anderson Photo CreditWhistlePig A Beer Lover’s Nightmare: They’re Dumping Draft Brew As bars and taprooms close, many craft brewers have too much aging beer on their hands. But others are finding new ways to package and sell it. By Joshua M. Bernstein Photo CreditErin Jeanne McDowell 8 Delicious Ways to Use Your Sourdough Discard You finally got that starter going. Now, use the discard in delicious baked goods while eliminating waste. By Erin Jeanne McDowell off the menu Photo CreditJohnny Miller for The New York Times. Food Stylist: Susan Spungen. Mexican Fare, Available for Takeout and Delivery Rosa Mexicano, Claro, La Morada and other restaurants across the city are offering their specialties — and margaritas in bulk. By Florence Fabricant Photo CreditMichael Graydon & Nikole Herriott for The New York Times. Prop Stylist: Kalen Kaminski. The Lightest, Brothiest Soup for When You Can’t Eat Another Bite Kind of hungry, but exhausted by the mere thought of eating? Alison Roman has the perfect thing for when you’re in appetite purgatory. By Alison Roman From the Pantry Photo CreditMelissa Clark This Larb Couldn’t Be Easier or More Adaptable Use ground pork or chicken, chopped fish fillets or mushrooms in this herby Thai favorite. By Melissa Clark Photo CreditKevin D. Liles for The New York Times Safe Dining? Hard to Imagine, but Many Restaurants Are Trying Though widespread reopenings may be a long way off, chefs and health officials have begun studying how a post-pandemic restaurant might look. By Kim Severson Photo CreditHannah Page This Focaccia Isn’t Your Garden-Variety Flatbread For some, sourdough is the baking king of social media. For others, there are these beautifully decorated focaccia, dotted with vegetables. By Amelia Nierenberg Wine School Photo CreditPepe Serra In Pairing Wine and Food, Experience Is the Best Teacher Books, websites and apps promise to take the guesswork out of choosing a bottle, but nothing is better than experimenting for yourself. By Eric Asimov Photo CreditGreg Kahn for The New York Times Craft Distillers Were Booming. Now They Face Bust. In recent years, sales for small liquor makers have been surging, but coronavirus has shuttered tasting rooms and disrupted distribution. By Clay Risen Wine School Photo CreditTony Cenicola/The New York Times Chardonnay the Oregon Way In the short wine history of the Willamette Valley, the grape has played third fiddle to pinot noir and pinot gris. Now, it is coming into its own. By Eric Asimov Front Burner Photo CreditEvan Sung for The New York Times Win 30 Minutes With a Chef The #AskChefsAnything auction will give bidders a chance for a one-on-one with their favorite chef, writer or other food expert, with the proceeds benefiting immigrant workers. By Florence Fabricant AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Latest Search Search Clear this text input Tina Girouard, Experimental Artist in 1970s SoHo, Dies at 73 She was a founder of Food, an influential artist-run kitchen in Manhattan, and a member of the alternative art space 112 Greene Street. By Randy Kennedy Voices A Mother, a Pandemic and Scorched Rice “You have an American amount of rice,” my mother told me as news of the coronavirus intensified. “Go get the biggest bag you can find.” By Lynn Jones Johnston Front Burner The Chef Hooni Kim Discusses His New Book The author of “My Korea” will talk with the food writer Andrew Friedman in an online event sponsored by the Korea Society. By Florence Fabricant Front Burner Stocks and a Jar Full of Soup Mix-Ins The chef Marco Canora’s broth restaurants are shipping brodos nationwide, and delivering jars of prepared ingredients for its broths locally. By Florence Fabricant Front Burner Chocolates for Quarantine Teatime Chocolat Moderne sells bonbons flavored with the tastes of England. By Florence Fabricant Front Burner Marmalades Make a Mother’s Day Gift Josephine’s Feast sells the preserves, in four citrus flavors, in gift boxes or individually. By Florence Fabricant Front Burner Brooklyn Kitchen Takes Its Cooking Classes Online Brunch is the next course on offer, with a real-time Zoom tutorial, just in time for Mother’s Day. By Florence Fabricant Cook Anyway One-pot pasta with chicken, tomato risotto, overnight oats: We’ve got recipes for cooking even when you don’t want to cook. By Sam Sifton What to Cook This Week Treat yourself to a cauliflower Parmesan, chicken thighs with rice and chiles, or burgers (beef, black bean, even seafood). By Sam Sifton from the pantry You Don’t Need a Mixer (Just a Whisk!) for This One-Bowl Shortbread Melted butter makes this the easiest-ever version of the recipe. By Melissa Clark Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Cooking Newsletter Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice. And download Cooking for iPhone and iPad in the App Store.SIGN UP AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Follow Us nytfoodtwitter page for nytfood nytcookinginstagram page for nytcooking nytcookingfacebook page for nytcooking nytcookingpinterest page for nytcooking Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions