https://www.nytimes.com/section/magazine
The New York Times Magazine - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Today’s Paper Highlights Photo CreditBobby Doherty for The New York Times Can the Trump Campaign Rewrite the Story of the Trump Presidency? Brad Parscale sees a path to victory through discounted Facebook ads and keeping Trump on TV. By Robert Draper Photo CreditIllustration by Tomi Um The Ethicist Amid Covid-19, Should I Shop for Myself or Opt for Delivery? The magazine’s Ethicist columnist on whether you’re helping more people by having goods delivered or by going to the store yourself — and more. By Kwame Anthony Appiah Photo CreditIllustration by Danielle Morgan Letter of Recommendation What Phone Calls Have Given Me That Video Chat Can’t Just as I’m imagining their environment, their clothes, their gestures, they’re imagining me. We’re making a cocoon where only the two of us live. By Jessica Gross Photo CreditIllustration by Radio Tip How to Get Your Balance Let go of the agitation from distraction. Trust your body. By Malia Wollan Photo CreditIllustration by Jules Julien Stephen King Has an Idea for the Story Joe Biden Could Be Telling “Do you want somebody who’s capable of dealing with a situation like coronavirus or do you want somebody who’s so focused on his self-image that he’s not able to do that?” Photo CreditNoah Kalina for The New York Times I Was Ready to Help Fight the Pandemic. Then I Got Sick Myself. As a surgeon, I anticipated seeing Covid-19 through the eyes of a medical professional. But being a patient was a different matter. By David Hirsch and C. J. Chivers The Ethicist Photo CreditIllustration by Tomi Um How Do I Deal With a Friend Who Thinks Covid-19 Is a Hoax? The magazine’s Ethicist columnist on what to do when a friend believes the coronavirus pandemic is a worldwide conspiracy — and more. By Kwame Anthony Appiah Photo CreditPhilip Montgomery for The New York Times My Restaurant Was My Life for 20 Years. Does the World Need It Anymore? Forced to shutter Prune, I’ve been revisiting my original dreams for it — and wondering if there will still be a place for it in the New York of the future. By Gabrielle Hamilton Photo CreditKiana Hayeri for The New York Times Afghanistan’s Next War What happens when the pandemic comes to a country in conflict? Photo Essay by Kiana Hayeri and Text by Mujib Mashal AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Latest Search Search Clear this text input ‘A Terrible Price’: The Deadly Racial Disparities of Covid-19 in America For the Zulu club, a black social organization in New Orleans, Mardi Gras was a joy. The coronavirus made it a tragedy. By Linda Villarosa and L. Kasimu Harris Screenland How Covid-19 Has Forced Us to Look at the Unthinkable The coronavirus hasn’t just caused misery in New York City — it has also reminded many of the suffering that was already there. By Jody Rosen Eat The Indisputable King of Bean Dishes Rajma, Punjabi-style red beans, is the best kind of comfort food right now. By Tejal Rao beyond the World War II we know For Some Holocaust Survivors, Even Liberation Was Dehumanizing “If their eyes were mirrors, it seems I’m not far from dead.” After being freed by Allied troops, some former prisoners continued to be mistreated. By Jennifer Orth-Veillon at war Making Marines Without Making Them Sick After a brief pause, Parris Island is once again taking Marine recruits, with some modifications to the grueling 13-week boot camp. By Geoff Ziezulewicz Issue 4.26.20 Behind the Cover: Afghanistan’s Next War For this issue, a look at Afghanistan as the virus threatens to explode with few resources to contain it. The Pandemic Has Turned Los Angeles Into a Walking City A visual diary by the artist Geoff McFetridge. By Geoff McFetridge Beyond the World War II We Know You’re in the Army Now. Roll Up Your Sleeve. Getting shots is part of the military. But an influenza vaccination Pfc. Monroe Scherer received in late 1945 made him sick for a week. By Jake Nevins Poem: The Morning News Like the birds and the jets, we all share the same vast sky. By Alberto Ríos and Naomi Shihab Nye Judge John Hodgman Judge John Hodgman on What’s Considered ‘Turn-of-the-Century’ Are we in a new century? What month is it? By Judge John Hodgman Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story The 4.26.20 Issue In this issue, Kiana Hayeri photographs and Mujib Marshal cover Covid's migration to Afghanistan; Janet Reitman reports on the first fatal outbreak in the federal prison system; Jennifer Kahn writes about how to stop the next pandemic before it starts; Gabrielle Hamilton writes about closing her restaurant Prune; and more. Read this issue Read our previous issue See all past issues AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Follow Us nytmaginstagram page for nytmag nytmagtwitter page for nytmag The Sunday Magazine Staff Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions