https://www.nytimes.com/section/t-magazine
T Magazine - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Today’s Paper Design & Interiors Food Travel Fashion & Beauty Entertainment Art Video Highlights Photo CreditDeanna Dikeman Culture Therapist How Can I Say Goodbye to My City in the Middle of a Pandemic? “I feel more connected to my family and friends than ever before,” writes one of our advice columnists. “The virus has collapsed distances.” By Ligaya Mishan Photo CreditCourtesy of the artist and Empty Gallery The Japanese Artist Turning Fruits and Vegetables Into Sculpture Ikebana’s most irreverent practitioner, the 80-year-old Kosen Ohtsubo, finds beauty in the banal. By Motoko Rich Photo Credit© George Condo, courtesy of the artist and Hauser & Wirth Two Exhibitions Respond to Art in the Age of Anxiety and Distance George Condo and Rashid Johnson talk about their new simultaneous digital shows, politics and how the role of artists has changed. By M.H. Miller Photo CreditColin Dodgson Stephen Sondheim, Theater’s Greatest Lyricist Lin-Manuel Miranda speaks to the man who has consistently remade the American musical over his 60-year career — and who is trying to surprise us one more time. By Lin-Manuel Miranda Photo CreditBridgman Images Revisiting the Posy in Our Current Moment Once thought to protect against disease, the small bouquets can at least provide a bit of beauty. By Amanda Fortini The T List Photo CreditCourtesy of the brands The T List: Five Things We Recommend This Week Aluminum-free ways to handle sweat — and more. Photo CreditJulia Stotz How to Organize Your Kitchen Like a Professional Chef The kitchen-ware entrepreneur Ellen Bennett shares tips for keeping food labeled, spices sorted and drawers in perfect order. By Janelle Zara Photo Credit The Creative Circles Defining the Culture Whether united by outlook or identity, happenstance or choice, these communities have shaped the worlds of art, fashion, film and more. Photo Credit© Valery Rizzo/Courtesy of Brooklyn Grange Rooftop Farm How to Plant a Victory Garden, Even on a Windowsill A step-by-step guide to growing edible plants in the smallest of urban outdoor spaces. By Zio Baritaux Notes on the Culture Photo CreditDuane Michals What Do Letters Reveal About the Creative Mind? In an age of oversharing and auto-fiction, reading a person’s correspondence still offers the best window into how a literary self is formed. By Megan O’Grady Photo CreditPhotograph by Willy Vanderperre. Styled by Olivier Rizzo The New Generation of Dominican Models Redefining Beauty Lineisy Montero, Licett Morillo and others have gained an international presence while also subverting assumptions about how women should look in Latin America. Photo CreditPhoto by Mickalene Thomas and Racquel Chevremont. Styled by Shiona Turini The Esteemed Black Actresses Who Finally Have the Spotlight Though their journey in Hollywood has been hard and steep, a number of women have made it to the top. And they’re not done yet. Photo CreditCourtesy of Astier de Villatte Great Scented Candles, Recommended by T Editors Suggestions for brightening your home — and filling it with fragrances that evoke faraway places. Photo CreditPhoto by Collier Schorr. Styled by Brian Molloy. The Butches and Studs Who’ve Defied the Male Gaze and Redefined Culture Without their presence and contributions, queer aesthetics — and the arts at large — would be far less rich. AdvertisementContinue reading the main story T’s April 19 Culture IssueMore in T’s April 19 Culture Issue » Photo Credit The Creative Circles Defining the Culture Whether united by outlook or identity, happenstance or choice, these communities have shaped the worlds of art, fashion, film and more. Photo CreditPhoto by Collier Schorr. Styled by Brian Molloy. The Butches and Studs Who’ve Defied the Male Gaze and Redefined Culture Without their presence and contributions, queer aesthetics — and the arts at large — would be far less rich. Photo CreditPhoto by Mickalene Thomas and Racquel Chevremont. Styled by Shiona Turini The Esteemed Black Actresses Who Finally Have the Spotlight Though their journey in Hollywood has been hard and steep, a number of women have made it to the top. And they’re not done yet. Photo CreditPhotograph by Willy Vanderperre. Styled by Olivier Rizzo The New Generation of Dominican Models Redefining Beauty Lineisy Montero, Licett Morillo and others have gained an international presence while also subverting assumptions about how women should look in Latin America. Photo CreditNick Waplington The Fashion Crews Reinventing the Way We Dress As Balmain’s Olivier Rousteing, Maria Cornejo, Telfar Clemens and Gucci’s Alessandro Michele prove, making clothes is the ultimate act of collaboration. Latest Search Search Clear this text input One Good Meal The Galette Recipe One French Creative Director Grew Up On At his grandmother’s cottage in Brittany, Pierre-Alexis Delaplace of Kerzon would wait, somewhat impatiently, for this savory treat. By Nick Marino The T List: Five Things We Recommend This Week A pajama designer’s easy but unexpected egg dish — and more. Why ‘Hair’ Has Endured An appreciation of the 1967 love-rock musical, which, against the odds, won over audiences across the world. The Downtown New York Restaurant With a Who’s Who List of Devotees From the start, Omen was a gathering place for artists, writers, actors and designers — 40 years later, in a vastly different city, it still is. The Neighbors of Ninth Street For decades, two blocks in Greenwich Village have been home to a disproportionate number of New York City’s writers, artists, actors and designers. How Antwerp’s Royal Academy of Fine Arts Birthed the Contemporary Avant-Garde A city poised on the edge of Europe and the rest of the world became the incubator for talents like Dries Van Noten, Luc Tuymans and Ann Demeulemeester. The Man Who Paved the Way for Black Directors in Hollywood Gordon Parks’s career made it possible for the next generation to fight for their rightful place in the mainstream — only to face the same opposition he had. The Family-Run Italian Design Houses That Became Cultural Dynasties For centuries, Italy has prized the art of fashion and furniture design like no other country in the world, with generations dedicated to traditional craftsmanship and continuity. How a Trio of Black-Owned Galleries Changed the Art World In the 1960s and ’70s, Brockman Gallery, Gallery 32 and JAM led the way in showing the work of artists now among the most influential of our time. What Is a Tribe? Human culture as we know it is still defined by the power of collective identity, the people we seek out to call our own. Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story T Magazine on Times Video A front-row seat to T’s best videos: digital house tours from around the world, behind-the-scenes looks at cover shoots and more. Watch in Times Video. AdvertisementContinue reading the main story April 19, 2020 Culture Spring: Design Spring: Men’s Fashion Spring: Women’s Fashion Winter: Holiday Winter: Travel Fall: The Greats Spring: Design Spring: Men’s Fashion Spring: Women’s Fashion Winter: Holiday Winter: Travel Fall: The Greats See all past issues Upcoming Issues April 19: Culture May 17: Travel Get T’s Weekly Newsletter Sign Up Follow Us tmagazinepinterest page for tmagazine tmagazinefacebook page for tmagazine tmagazineinstagram page for tmagazine tmagazinetwitter page for tmagazine Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions