https://www.nytimes.com/video
Video - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Today’s Paper transcript Back bars 0:00/5:28 -5:28 transcript How Coronavirus Attacks the Body It doesn’t take long for mild coronavirus symptoms to turn serious. These virtual reality images show how the virus can invade the lungs and kill. You’re looking at a virtual reality image of a coronavirus patient at George Washington Hospital in Washington, D.C. The patient is a generally healthy 59-year-old man with high blood pressure. Just days before this image was created, he was asymptomatic. But now, those green areas show where the infection has damaged tissue in the lungs. For many, Covid-19 will be mild, but for others it’s deadly. This video is about the latter path: How the virus kills. We’ll start in China: 191 confirmed Covid-19 patients were in a hospital in Wuhan — 54 died. Of those 54, 50 had a condition known as ARDS, Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome. It’s a condition that stops oxygen from reaching the organs. “You have air hunger.” “It means that they can’t breathe.” “There’s a very strong correlation between the people who develop ARDS and the people who die.” ARDS is not unique to Covid-19. “It’s such a long list of causes: infection, people with H.I.V./AIDS. If you get into a big motor vehicle accident and sustain multiple injuries to multiple organs, that causes ARDS, SARS and MERS. Now, things that you inhale and that can be toxic can cause ARDS: household bleach, you know, war gases, mustard gas and phosgene. To the people who vaped THC that was contaminated with vitamin E acetate, and those patients were also developing ARDS.” Here’s what’s actually happening when you get ARDS. When we breathe in air, oxygen goes down our windpipe and fills the lungs. Specifically, the small air sacs at the end of the lungs are the key to air exchange in the body. “So that’s why nature has created, or evolution has created, this very, very — the barrier is so thin. It’s just a few micrometers in size. So the oxygen has to go through just a little bit of collagen, the cell that lines the alveolus, into the red blood cell. Once it gets into the red blood cell, then the blood takes it back into the heart and from there to the rest of the body.” And this is the key to understanding why Covid-19 is killing people. “That entire wall of the air sac gets damaged by the virus. Think of it like a thick layer of paint on the inside of the walls of a room or a thick layer of mold on the walls on the inside of the room. That’s what it looks like.” As that wall becomes thicker, oxygen can no longer pass into the bloodstream, and your organs begin to suffocate. So if you are sick, you might be asking yourself: Am I on the mild path or the serious path? A good indication is whether you have severe shortness of breath and for how long. Those are indications the virus has progressed lower into the lungs. One small study of hospitalized patients in China found that zero to two days after development of symptoms, chest scans were coming back normal for more than half of patients. Keep in mind, these are patients that were sick enough to be in the hospital. But within three to five days after symptoms started, that flipped, and 91 percent of hospitalized patients had significant respiratory issues. “As you progress beyond the seven to 10 days stage, that’s when the ARDS seems to be developing. And once it develops, it develops rapidly fast compared to ARDS developing from let’s say another cause. And these patients seem to be doing much worse over a relatively faster period of time.” Many people have mild or even no symptoms with the virus. But the longer Covid-19 affects your lungs, the higher the risk of serious respiratory issues. “And the longer you’re on the ventilator, the less likelihood you will come off the ventilator. That is the blunt truth of this situation.” “When I saw this in our first patient, and you see the extent of the damage and how it affects both lungs and various parts of the lungs, and it’s much more striking even for somebody who’s been in practice for almost 20 years.” And that’s what happened to this patient. “Just about one week after being at our hospital, unfortunately he passed away. Really my goal of trying to get this out into the public is so that they understand the severity of the problem that we’re seeing, and why the social distancing and the flatten the curve, and every other hashtag that’s come up in the past couple weeks, is just so, so important — is because this is a community-wide problem. It’s a global problem, and it’s going to take a community solution. Right? Everybody has a role to play. And if you’re not in the health care field right now, your role is to stay home. All right? Because again, the virus doesn’t move on its own. People move. People transmit the virus.” Gov. Cuomo: “And the longer you’re on the ventilator, the less likelihood you will come off the ventilator.” Watch5:28 How Coronavirus Attacks the Body It doesn’t take long for mild coronavirus symptoms to turn serious. These virtual reality images show how the virus can invade the lungs and kill. Watch1:60 How to Make Your Own Face Mask The coronavirus pandemic is leading citizens everywhere to put on masks while in public. Here’s how to make one out of an old T-shirt. transcript Back bars 0:00/9:35 -9:35 transcript How Taylor Swift Writes a Love Song Using exclusive voice memos, video and interviews, Diary of a Song reconstructs how Taylor Swift turned a late-night idea into “Lover,” her fourth track to be nominated for the songwriting award at the Grammys, and her first without a co-writer. “Hello.” “O.K., it’s happened. We’re in business.” “How’s this?” “I like it, Alex.” “Do you always keep instruments near your bed in case inspiration strikes?” “Well, I have a piano near me all the time, and I always have a good — yeah, the answer is yes.” Singing: “Take me out and take me home. You’re my, my, my, my lover.” “I’ve never really been able to fully explain songwriting other than it’s like this little glittery cloud floats in front of your face, and you grab it at the right time. And then you revert back to what you know about the structure of a song in order to fill in the gaps.” “Where were you the moment inspiration struck?” “It was, I was in bed. I was in Nashville. I got out of bed. I think it was really late at night, and stumbled over to the piano.” Voice memo: “O.K., so I had this idea that’s like — obviously I don’t know the verse, whatever yet, but I have a pretty cool, really simple, beautiful chorus idea called ‘Lover.’” “I’ve been thinking for years, God, it would just be so great to have a song that people who are in love would want to dance to, like slow dance to. In my head, I had just the last two people on a dance floor at 3 a.m., swaying.” “What did you have in your mind? Was it the title? Was it a lyric? Was it a melody?” “It was not — it was, can I go where you go? Can we always be this close?” Singing: “Can I go where you go? Can we always be this close forever and ever?” “I wanted the chorus to be these really simple existential questions that we ask ourselves when we’re in love. ‘Can I go where you go’ is such a heavy thing to ask somebody. ‘Can we always be this close’ has so much fear in it, but so does love.” “When did you hit upon the word ‘lover’?” “Oh, I’ve always liked that word, but I’ve never used it in everyday life. When people are like, that’s my lover over there or calling each other lover, I’ve never done that, but I’ve always loved it in the context of poetry or songs.” “It’s a polarizing word. Some people are like, ‘Ugh, that word gives me the creeps.’” “Well, anything I do is polarizing. So, you know, I’m used to that.” “Fair enough. So how much of the song did you get done that night at the piano in Nashville?” “The whole thing.” “She sent me that voice note. Whether it’s a whole song or just a little thing from her, I sort of get this big jolt, and I listen and I block out the whole world for a minute. Every lyric and melody was right there. And I was like …” [ding] “… get on a plane. She came in the next day. She sat right there. She played it.” “It’s basically, I don’t see it as piano. I think it’s that kind of dreamy, guitary, throwback, but not like camp throwback.” “I know what you mean.” “So —” [piano] “I thought it was the perfect song, which is really interesting because it’s almost like even more of a duty to do it right.” Singing: “You’re my, my, my, my lover.” “That seems so much better.” “Yeah, I love the walk down.” “That really fixes that part.” “I love the walk down.” “That was the only thing that —” “I was trying to figure out, what the hell is going to happen there? So the —” “That makes it so much better.” Singing: “My, my, my, my.” “When I’m working with Jack and Taylor, I’m working with two extremely creative people who are bouncing ideas back and forth so fast. So my job is to basically not slow them down in any way.” “Laura’s been by my side for every record I’ve made pretty much since people started listening to any of my records. We’re all — three of us are in that process together.” “We’re just like ugh, like it’s just fun. We’re fully, fully acting on impulse. And we’re acting on intuition, and we’re acting on excitement and oat-milk lattes.” “I remember the first thing I did was I went into the live room, which is right there. And at that time I had listened to a lot of Violent Femmes recently, and I was excited about how much feeling you could get out of a snare drum if it was a brush.” [drums] “And I just remember going in and going ‘psh,’ one brush. I wasn’t even really playing drums. I just kind of had one brush. I just —” “We were using real reverbs and real tape echoes. It gives a really special character to it where it does feel nostalgic.” “The bass, which is a very, very, very special bass, belongs to the studio.” “He was calling that the ‘Paul bass.’ Is that Paul McCartney?” “Yeah.” “My old Hofner bass, my little baby. Come on, baby.” “We were just referencing like what would Paul do — W.W.P.D.? Humming: Brum, brum, brum, brum, brum, brum, brum. The bass line is actually the hook.” “It’s not a true ‘Paul bass’ though.” “It’s not a true ‘Paul bass’ at all, but it’s better at that ‘Paul thump’ than I’ve ever gotten out of the violin bass.” Humming: “Brum, brum, brum, brum, brum, brum, brum, brum, brum.” “The bass and the drum is sort of like — if you just hear those two tracks, like the entire space is so, I think, beautifully filled.” “In the studio, I’m obsessively going over every lyric and making sure that’s what I want the final lyric to be. So I’ll be over, in my notes, just sharpen that, hone in on that.” “Were there lines that changed in that process?” “Yeah, yeah, yeah. I had toyed with the idea of being like, we could leave the Christmas lights up till April.” Singing: “We could leave the Christmas lights up till January.” “Doesn’t everyone leave their Christmas lights up till January?” “But it’s not about that being a crazy thing. It’s about how mundane it is. It’s about we could put a rug over there. We could do wallpaper, or we could do paint.” Singing: “This is our place. We made the rules.” “When young adults go from living in their family to then combining their life with someone else, that’s actually like the most profound thing.” “To be just telling this story — I don’t know. It almost feels like an old story I’ve heard many times. I mean, I guess it is, people falling in love.” “Tell me about the importance of the bridge to you. I feel like you love a bridge. This is a special bridge. Talk to me about it.” “I love a bridge. I love a bridge so much. I love trying to take the song to a higher level with the bridge.” “There’s these, sort of, hand-plucking strings and these kind of flutes that are popping out.” “I wanted it to be the first time we introduced the idea of vows.” “Make it feel like a little wedding.” Singing: “Ladies and gentlemen, will you please stand?” “I love to take a common phrase and twist it. So the bridge, I took all these common phrases that we say about weddings …” Singing: “With every guitar-string scar on my hand.” “I like to add something that changes the phrase.” Singing: “I take this magnetic force of a man to be my lover.” “Without a bridge, a song can sort of feel almost like a jingle. You know when you’re driving through beautiful scenery, and you’re like mountains, trees. Oh my God, right? And all of a sudden you go through a tunnel and you’re like, what the [expletive]? And then it’s back. Mountains and trees, so beautiful. It’s like you need that third element to take you away from where you’ve been so you’re so excited to get it back. Specifically in ‘Lover’ when you come out of the bridge and you go back into the chorus, you’re just ‘phew.’” Singing: “Can I go where you go? Can we always be this close, forever and ever?” “And it was all done in that one day.” “Oh yeah.” “I mean, I think we were all really excited when we left the studio that day.” “Even if anybody had been like, I don’t think this one is great, I would have been like, ‘Well, I reject your feedback because I love this one.’” “It’s the perfect song, and tells that story perfectly and pulls me right into where she wants me, as the listener, to be. You’re my, you’re my, you’re my, you’re my, you’re my what? And then —” [thump] Singing: “Lover.” “Do you have guitar-string scars on your hands?” “Well, I mean, I have extreme calluses. You can’t see them, probably, but they’re all — and I have some from just changing strings and not being very good at it. Do you know what I mean? Like some where you’re like tuning, tuning, tuning. Pop. Ow.” Watch9:35 How Taylor Swift Writes a Love Song Using exclusive voice memos, video and interviews, Diary of a Song reconstructs how Taylor Swift turned a late-night idea into “Lover,” her fourth track to be nominated for the songwriting award at the Grammys, and her first without a co-writer. transcript Back bars 0:00/7:49 -7:49 transcript How Coronavirus at Rikers Puts All of N.Y.C. at Risk Officials have promised a mass release of inmates from city jails to slow the spread of coronavirus. Critics say the government isn’t moving fast enough. “To not have any control over anything, to just be waiting and on the edge of your seat, it’s mind blowing at this point.” Janette’s fiancée, Michael, is detained on Rikers Island. He’s serving time because he failed to check in with his officer, violating his parole for drug possession. Now Michael, and hundreds like him, are at the center of a public health crisis experts have been warning about for weeks. “Two months owed to the city, it’s not worth somebody’s life. You’re giving people a life sentence leaving them there.” TV announcers: “An inmate who tested positive for Covid-19 died yesterday at Bellevue Hospital.” “Rikers is one of the largest correctional facilities in the world, and right now, the infection rate there is seven times that of New York City.” “Is our prison system equipped to handle an outbreak?” “When the coronavirus seeped into the jails, public officials, public advocates all rushed to address the situation.” “We will continue to reduce our jail population.” “We’re releasing people who are in jails because they violated parole.” When the virus was first identified in New York, there were 5,400 inmates in city jails. To combat the spread of the virus, the Board of Correction recommended the release of 2,000 inmates. Parole violators, people over 50, those medically at risk and inmates serving short sentences. But two weeks later, government officials have released just half. “Prisons, jails, are acting as incubators for the virus.” “Think about the jails as the world’s worst cruise ship.” “If we get a real situation here, and this thing starts to spread, it’s going to spread like wildfire, and New York is going to have a problem on their hands.” Thousands of employees travel through the city’s jails every day, forming a human lifeline to the city. Inmates also come and go. “So it’s particularly urgent to get this under control because it’s not just about who is in the jails right now, it’s really about the city.” This is Kenneth Albritton. He was being held on Rikers as Covid-19 spread through the city. “It’s scary in there, that’s what I would tell you. When I was in there, you had guys making their own masks with their shirts. They didn’t want to breathe in the air with the same people that’s in the dorm with them.” Kenneth was on parole after serving time for second-degree manslaughter when he was 18. “I was brought to Rikers Island on Feb. 5 for a curfew violation. For me reading a paper and watching the news, and I’m seeing that they’re saying no more than 10 to a group. But you have 50 guys that’s in a sleeping area. It’s impossible to tell us to practice social distancing there when they’re being stacked on top of each other.” After someone in his dorm tested positive, Kenneth says he was quarantined. But less than 24 hours later, he was released. He was given a MetroCard, but no guidance about how to deal with the potential spread of Covid-19. “If they would have tested me on my way out, then I would have felt like, OK, they took the proper steps. When I left the pen to come home, they told us nothing about how we should handle situation. Even though nobody told me nothing, I felt I should quarantine myself.” “Not much has been considered in terms of what happens to inmates after their release, and once they’re back in the communities and in their homes.” When we asked about the pace of releases, the mayor’s office agreed it was slow, but said they don’t have full control of the process. The state’s Department of Corrections said it’s working as quickly as possible. “My fiancée who’s on Rikers, we had our son in September and about two weeks after that, he found out that he had a warrant for his arrest.” “Oh, you got those boogies. I told you that baby likes that camera — Oh my goodness.” “This is a person with nonviolent charges. It’s like a real health care disaster. The parolees is like the easiest thing they do. Right. Yeah, they said about 500 or 700 parolees. I just had read it last night. Yes, that he signed off on it.” The outbreak at city jails doesn’t just pose a threat to inmates. On March 27, Quinsey Simpson became the first New York City corrections officer to die from Covid-19. “Correction officers every day, despite harm to themselves and their family, are rolling on this island to do this job.” Officer Husamudeen criticizes the city’s response, though he’s arguing for improving jail conditions not releasing inmates. “That’s not the answer to solving this problem. They haven’t served their time. If they served their time, they wouldn’t be on parole.” But his opposition is in the minority. While the overall population at Rikers has decreased, there’s an unusual consensus from public defenders, prosecutors and corrections officials that the releases aren’t happening quickly enough. “We need to reframe our thinking around public safety right now to accommodate the fact that public safety includes trying to prevent viral spread.” “My brother who’s a New York City schoolteacher contracted the coronavirus. Are you OK? Oh, I love you. Oh, you scared? What’s the matter? Oh, God. Don’t get into your head that it’s going to beat you. You’re going to beat this. OK? OK, I love you. OK, I’ll call you in a little while. OK. As a teacher, he had a lot of precautions, and thought he was following everything he was supposed to be doing, and he contracted the coronavirus going into a school. This is why I’m so adamant about fighting for Michael to get home. The person standing right next to you can have it and you wouldn’t even know it.” Across city jails, hundreds of inmates and corrections workers have tested positive, and half of all inmates are now under quarantine. “Covid-19 and the pandemic has exposed pretty rapidly sort of all of the weakest places in our social safety nets. And it is no surprise that one of those is the ways that jails put people at risk.” “I know, love — This is just ridiculously scary.” Watch7:49 How Coronavirus at Rikers Puts All of N.Y.C. at Risk Officials have promised a mass release of inmates from city jails to slow the spread of coronavirus. Critics say the government isn’t moving fast enough. Latest Video Hong Kong Protests 2020 Elections Most-Viewed Visual Investigations The Dispatch Diary of a Song How We Got Here Magazine T Magazine Op-Docs Opinion AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions