https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/29/podcasts/the-daily/gretchen-whitmer-michigan-protests.html
The Governor and the Protester - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index The Daily Today’s Paper The Daily|The Governor and the Protester https://nyti.ms/3f4KZZp AdvertisementContinue reading the main story The DailySubscribe: Apple Podcasts Google Podcasts The Governor and the Protester She ordered Michigan to stay on lockdown through mid-May. He thinks the measures are too extreme.Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Luke Vander Ploeg, Clare Toeniskoetter and Eric Krupke, and edited by Lisa Chow, Liz Baylen and Lisa Tobin transcript Back to The Daily bars 0:00/42:18 -42:18 Previous More episodes ofThe Daily April 29, 2020 • 42:18The Governor and the Protester April 28, 2020The State of Testing April 27, 2020 • 29:36A Glut of Oil April 26, 2020 • 43:41The Sunday Read: Closing the Restaurant That Was My Life for 20 Years April 24, 2020 • 10:44A Bit of Relief: I Forgive You, New York April 24, 2020 • 46:35A New Way to Mourn April 23, 2020 • 20:12Getting Off Rikers Island April 22, 2020 • 27:43Who’s Organizing the Lockdown Protests? April 21, 2020 • 23:34The Supreme Court Rules From Home April 20, 2020 • 27:22The Next Year (or Two) of the Pandemic April 19, 2020 • 34:01The Sunday Read: The Woman Who Might Find Us Another Earth April 17, 2020 • 27:22Introducing ‘Rabbit Hole’ See All Episodes ofThe DailyNext April 29, 2020, 6:05 a.m. ET Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via Spotify | Via Stitcher Michigan’s restrictions on its citizens’ movements have been at the center of a national debate about public health versus economic survival. Today, we speak to the governor who ordered those restrictions and a protester who has rallied against them. On today’s episode: Gov. Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan. Phil Campbell, a vice president of a pest control company whose revenues have been halved during lockdown. Video transcript Back bars 0:00/1:21 -1:21 transcript ‘We Have to Take This Seriously,’ Whitmer Says of Coronavirus Plans Gov. Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan said decisions to reopen parts of the Midwest should be made cautiously after President Trump called for an easing of measures. Everyday we have hoped for some good news, and this whole environment can be incredibly hard to process, just to get your head around and to be able to see that there — this is a moment in time, it is not the rest of our lives. This is a moment in time. Yesterday I announced that a coalition of Midwestern governors, and Kentucky, are leading a bipartisan effort to re-engage the economy in the Great Lakes region. This is a partnership between Michigan and Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Minnesota, Wisconsin and Kentucky. This is an effort because we all know, we governors understand, that Covid-19 does not respect state line or party line for that matter. And this is a bipartisan group of governors coming together because we know that we are connected. It’s not just borders we share. But it’s industry, and it’s an economy. But the fact of the matter is we have to take this seriously. And the fewer people who observe are — the more people that fail to observe the strict stay-home nature of this unique problem that we have, the longer we’re going to have to be in a stay-at-home posture. And that is not something any of us wants. Gov. Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan said decisions to reopen parts of the Midwest should be made cautiously after President Trump called for an easing of measures.CreditCredit...Pool, Michigan Governors Office, via Associated Press Background reading: Two weeks ago, President Trump announced that governors would be on their own to decide when to ease pandemic restrictions. The day after his announcement, he called for Michigan’s liberation on Twitter. Raucous protests ensued. After becoming a prominent foil of the president, Ms. Whitmer is now being considered as a potential vice-presidential pick in the election. Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com. “The Daily” is made by Theo Balcomb, Andy Mills, Lisa Tobin, Rachel Quester, Lynsea Garrison, Annie Brown, Clare Toeniskoetter, Paige Cowett, Michael Simon Johnson, Brad Fisher, Larissa Anderson, Wendy Dorr, Chris Wood, Jessica Cheung, Stella Tan, Alexandra Leigh Young, Jonathan Wolfe, Lisa Chow, Eric Krupke, Marc Georges, Luke Vander Ploeg, Adizah Eghan, Kelly Prime, Julia Longoria, Sindhu Gnanasambandan, M.J. Davis Lin, Austin Mitchell, Sayre Quevedo, Neena Pathak, Dan Powell, Dave Shaw, Sydney Harper, Daniel Guillemette, Hans Buetow, Robert Jimison, Mike Benoist and Bianca Giaever. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly. Special thanks to Sam Dolnick, Mikayla Bouchard, Lauren Jackson, Julia Simon, Mahima Chablani and Nora Keller. AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions