https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/29/world/coronavirus-news.html?type=styln-live-updates&label=global&index=1#link-29f749f9
Coronavirus World Updates - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index World Today’s Paper World|Europe Prepares for a Coronavirus Summer: Live Updates https://nyti.ms/2Wmc41Z The Coronavirus Outbreak debugid:204 • Latest Updates Maps and Tracker New Symptom List Markets Life at Home Newsletter AdvertisementContinue reading the main story LIVE UPDATESUpdated April 29, 2020, 8:09 a.m. ETApril 29, 2020, 8:09 a.m. ET Europe Prepares for a Coronavirus Summer: Live Updates The virus was found in tiny droplets at two Chinese hospitals, the first real-world examples that airborne transmission may be possible. Right Now The German government has extended a worldwide travel warning until June 14, urging citizens to stay at home. 新冠病毒疫情最新消息 Here’s what you need to know: Pandemic forces a rethinking of summer plans and immunization programs. Faith in the central government fractures over France’s coronavirus response. Across Europe, a struggle to save the summer vacation. A study finds the coronavirus in tiny airborne droplets in Chinese hospitals. Lockdowns halt illegal wildlife trade, for now. Vaccinations for other preventable diseases are disrupted by pandemic. Sweden did not enforce a lockdown, trusting its people to voluntarily follow the protocols. Image Walking on the sea front of Barcelona, Spain, this weekend.Credit...Samuel Aranda for The New York Times Pandemic forces a rethinking of summer plans and immunization programs. As global cases of the coronavirus soared past three million this week and the death toll grows, the pandemic has forced societies to recalibrate nearly every aspect of daily life. With public health officials warning of a long fight ahead, the virus has changed the world’s capacity to immunize against other diseases and redefined summer vacation for much of the world. The impact on the prevention of other infectious diseases is becoming increasingly obvious, with Africa and Asia reporting a huge slide in the number of people reached through vaccine programs as a result of the pandemic and restrictions used to combat it. That could set the stage for another looming health crisis, officials say. Much of Europe is preparing for a summer of squashed or severely limited travel plans, with Germany announcing an extension of its worldwide travel warning until mid-June. But other countries, like Croatia, which rely heavily on tourism to boost their economy are trying to salvage the summer season and have suggested they will allow in tourists from countries with a low number of coronavirus infections. Even the nature of citizens’ relationship with their states has come into question. In France, the government’s failure to stem the initial outbreak has undermined the social contract, critics say, threatening the stability of the country’s strong central government. “We have some of the highest taxes and biggest public spending in the world, and the French people accept that because, implicitly, their protection was guaranteed by the state,” said Pierre Vermeren, a historian who teaches at the University of Paris 1 Panthéon-Sorbonne. But some of the knock-on effects of widespread lockdowns have been positive, with new studies that show the closures of borders has nearly halted criminal networks that illegally trade in wildlife. Even as the outbreak continues to redefine our lives, scientists have only a partial understanding of the coronavirus itself, though new evidence of the virus’s ability to survive in airborne droplets is adding to that picture. A study published in the journal Nature bolsters evidence that the novel coronavirus can spread through the air, after scientists identified genetic markers of the virus in airborne droplets, many with diameters smaller than one-ten-thousandth of an inch. Coronavirus Map: Tracking the Global Outbreak The virus has infected more than 3,073,000 people in at least 177 countries. Faith in the central government fractures over France’s coronavirus response. A couple of baguettes tucked under her arm, Maha Rambousek fiddled with a face mask that kept sliding off her nose. After a local decree made masks mandatory in public, she had quickly stitched it together, but was left confused when the policy was overturned two days later by the central government. “I don’t know who’s wrong or who’s right,” Ms. Rambousek said. “And I can’t turn to anybody for certainties.” The measure in Sceaux, a well-to-do suburb just south of Paris, was one of an increasing number of exceptional, local challenges to the government’s handling of the outbreak, which has shaken confidence in a cornerstone of French society: the primal authority of the centralized state. The city of Perpignan lodged contagious patients in a hotel after the central government told people to self-isolate at home. Officials in the city of Marseille carried out widespread testing of both the sick and healthy even as the government ordered that only the seriously ill be tested. While France’s vaunted health care system has staved off disaster, France has suffered the world’s fourth-biggest death toll — now at 23,293 official deaths, behind the United States, Italy and Spain — a consequence, critics say, of the central government’s failure to anticipate the onslaught of the contagion. That failure and a critical shortage of masks and testing kits — also resulting from gaps in state policies — led to the virus’s rapid early spread, prompting France to impose one of the word’s strictest nationwide lockdowns, now in its seventh week. Prime Minister Édouard Philippe announced a tentative plan on Monday to gradually reopen the country starting on May 11. Schools and businesses would start reopening, though not restaurants or cafes. He urged companies to keep their employees working at home. And he promised that masks and testing would be made sufficiently available. But it was not clear that those steps would halt what polls show is declining confidence in the government’s handling of the epidemic. Across Europe, a struggle to save the summer vacation. European countries are examining how to save the summer vacation, with many borders closed and international flights suspended or arrivals restricted to those who can prove a pressing need to enter. The German government, for example, has extended a worldwide travel warning until June 14, forcing residents itching to travel abroad over the coming holidays at the end of May to remain home. The move comes as many countries in Europe are struggling to tentatively reopen their economies while preventing the coronavirus from spreading. Restrictions put in place this year are being extended across the continent, even amid concerns about the fate of the summer vacation season, especially in countries whose economies depend heavily on income from tourists, like Greece. Austria, a popular destination for German vacationers, said on Monday that it would allow restaurants and bars to reopen under certain restrictions starting mid-May and hotels by the end of that month. The Croatian authorities have suggested they would allow in summer tourists from countries with a lower number of coronavirus infections than in Croatia who can prove they are healthy upon entry. Poland, which was one of the first nations in Europe to introduce a coronavirus lockdown, plans to reopen hotels, shopping malls and some museums and art galleries on May 4, and the country’s ban on international travel is scheduled to expire on May 9. Sweden has advised its citizens against nonessential travel abroad through June 15, although the country’s more relaxed approach to containing the virus has many Germans hoping that a summer vacation there will be possible. But the country’s health minister, Lena Hallengren, poured cold water on that idea on Tuesday, telling the German tabloid Bild, “My advice to everyone: Stay in your own country.” A study finds the coronavirus in tiny airborne droplets in Chinese hospitals. Adding to growing evidence that the novel coronavirus can spread through air, scientists have identified genetic markers of the virus in airborne droplets, many with diameters smaller than one-ten-thousandth of an inch. That had been previously demonstrated in laboratory experiments, but now Chinese scientists studying real-world conditions report that they captured tiny droplets containing the genetic markers of the virus from the air in two hospitals in Wuhan, China, where the outbreak started. Their findings were published Monday in the journal Nature. It remains unknown if the virus in the samples they collected was infectious, but droplets that small, which are expelled by breathing and talking, can remain aloft and be inhaled by others. “Those are going to stay in the air floating around for at least two hours,” said Linsey Marr, a professor of civil and environmental engineering at Virginia Tech who was not involved with the Nature paper. “It strongly suggests that there is potential for airborne transmission.” Dr. Marr and many other scientists say evidence is mounting that the coronavirus is being spread by tiny droplets known as aerosols. The World Health Organization has so far downplayed the possibility, saying that the disease is mostly transmitted through larger droplets that do not remain airborne for long, or through the touching of contaminated surfaces. Even with the new findings, the issue is not settled. Although the coronavirus RNA — the genetic blueprint of the virus — was present in the aerosols, scientists do not know yet whether the viruses remain infectious or whether the tests just detected harmless virus fragments. Lockdowns halt illegal wildlife trade, for now. As borders shut and much of the world entered a lockdown in response to the coronavirus pandemic, economic activity stalled, travel halted and some cross-border trade took a hit. But another sector is also feeling the pinch:criminals trafficking in poached wildlife. Some conservationists now see a chance to do lasting damage to these criminal networks in the wake of the pandemic, but fear that poaching may also rise. “Security is too heavy at the border. Products can’t go out,” said a person in Vietnam involved in the trade. That person spoke to an undercover investigator who was involved in a new report on the state of the illegal wildlife trade. The pandemic has prevented organized criminal gangs in Southeast Asian countries from moving large quantities of ivory and pangolin scales into China. But any limits on the illegal wildlife trade are likely to be temporary. “There’s too much money to be made from these products, and there’s too many people involved for this to have a significant long term impact,” said Sarah Stoner, a co-author of the report and director of intelligence at the Wildlife Justice Commission, an international foundation based in The Hague, Netherlands, that works to dismantle illegal wildlife trade. She and other experts say that while the coronavirus’s limits on travel and business could be an opportunity for law enforcement to disrupt criminal networks, the pandemic’s economic toll could attract more people to the trade. “We are tracking significant amounts of new trafficking activity in multiple countries, which seems to indicate that traffickers are both still very much in operation and also actively seeking ways to adapt and thrive in the new normal,” said Tim Wittig, the head of intelligence for United for Wildlife, a nonprofit led by Prince William to fight wildlife trafficking. In a report published earlier this month, Dr. Wittig also found that temporary disruptions to the trade would be fleeting. “Traders have incentive to move product as soon as is feasible,” he said. Vaccinations for other preventable diseases are disrupted by pandemic. The coronavirus pandemic will disrupt immunization efforts across the world and increase deaths from other preventable diseases in Africa, public health officials say, shining a light on how the virus is setting the stage for another looming health crisis. The World Health Organization now estimates that 41 countries in sub-Saharan Africa will miss out on malaria vaccines this year, potentially doubling the number of malaria deaths in the region. Vaccinations for up to 12 million children in Africa to curb the spread of polio have also been put on hold, pushing higher the number of countries on the continent reporting new outbreaks of the disease. Travel restrictions have interrupted vaccine supply chains and governments have scaled back or shut down health services that do not comply with distancing guidelines. The coronavirus pandemic continues to evolve rapidly in Africa, with 33,273 cases and 1,467 deaths reported so far, according to the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. While the virus was slow to arrive, a few African countries are beginning to experience widespread community transmission, leading to partial or nationwide lockdowns. While African countries have made incredible improvements in immunizing children, the continent still lags behind when it comes to meeting global vaccination targets. The causes include the difficulty for health workers to access some areas, inadequate public campaigns and lack of trust of vaccines from some. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the director general of the World Health Organization, said the organization was working closely with governments to ensure that malaria vaccination efforts would continue even as the coronavirus pandemic raged on. Disruptions in immunizations have also been reported in South Asia, where 4.5 million children have already missed out on routine vaccinations targeting diseases like measles, polio and diphtheria. Sweden did not enforce a lockdown, trusting its people to voluntarily follow the protocols. When the government of Sweden defied conventional wisdom and refused to order a wholesale lockdown to “flatten the curve” of the coronavirus epidemic, public health officials pointed to trust as a central justification. Swedes, they said, could be trusted to follow social distancing protocols and wash their hands to slow the spread of the virus — without any mandatory orders. And, to a large extent, Sweden seems to have been as successful in controlling the virus as most other nations. The country’s death rate of 22 per 100,000 people is the same as that of Ireland, which has earned accolades for its handling of the pandemic. But on one warm spring day in Stockholm last week, there was little evidence that people were observing the protocols. Young Swedes thronged bars, restaurants and parks, drinking in the sun. While other countries were slamming on the brakes, Sweden kept its borders open, left schools in session and placed no limits on public transport. Hairdressers, gyms and some cinemas have remained open. Gatherings of more than 50 people were prohibited, and at the end of March, the authorities banned visits to nursing homes. But there are almost no fines, and pedestrians wearing masks are generally stared at as if they have just landed from Mars. Throughout the crisis, Sweden has had enough intensive care units to deal with Covid-19 patients, said the minister of health and social affairs, Lena Hallengren. “We have 250 empty beds right now.” This is not to say that Sweden has escaped Covid-19’s deadly consequences. The Swedish Public Health Authority has admitted that the country’s seniors have been hit hard, with the virus spreading through 75 percent of the 101 care homes in Stockholm. The country’s state epidemiologist, Anders Tegnell, acknowledged that Sweden will have to face its broad failing with people over the age of 70, who have accounted for a staggering 86 percent of the country’s 2,194 fatalities to date. The public health authority also announced last week that more than 26 percent of the 2 million inhabitants of Stockholm will have been infected by May 1. But even that figure was presented as something of a win: a number of infections that might limit future outbreaks, reached without suffering an inordinate number of deaths. In the global scramble for virus tracing apps, privacy is a big concern. As the coronavirus pandemic spreads across the globe, several dozen countries, states, universities and companies are racing to develop apps to rein in the rate of infection. The apps use smartphones to gather information about the movements of people who have tested positive for the virus, alert others who might have crossed their paths, and in some cases make sure infected people stay quarantined. But the mad dash has left some places with a confusing mishmash of options, and has some computer security researchers worried about vulnerabilities in hastily written software. Technical differences among apps could vastly affect their security and effectiveness. In February, China began requiring residents in more than 200 cities to download a health code app that automatically dictates whether people must quarantine. The app sends the government location data, but it is unclear how the quarantine decisions are made. By contrast, Singapore’s app uses Bluetooth rather than location data to identify nearby phones, and the information is stored on the phones unless a person tests positive for the virus and agrees to share the data with contact tracers, who can then notify others who may have been exposed. In Norway, the app sends location and Bluetooth data to central servers that can be accessed by government health authorities. A new law mandates that the information be used only for the pandemic, and that it be deleted every 30 days. In an effort to coordinate public health surveillance in India, the central government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi introduced a contact-tracing app in April called Aarogya Setu. It uses smartphone location data and Bluetooth to log people’s travel routes and the other phones they encounter. With urging from Mr. Modi, more than 77 million people, about 5.6 percent of the population, have downloaded it so far. But civil liberties groups have warned that the rush to adopt virus-tracking technologies may entrench new forms of government surveillance and social control even if the apps do not prove effective in fighting the coronavirus. A recent study by epidemiologists at Oxford University estimated for the use of an app to contain the virus, combined with other tactics such as broader testing and the quarantining of the most vulnerable people, 60 percent of the population in a given area would need to sign up. While some compliance is better than none, the researchers found, low rates of adoption in many areas suggest voluntary programs may not provide a breakthrough. As the U.S. infection rate passed 1 million, shopping malls in several states said they will reopen. Even as the number of coronavirus cases in the United States passed one million on Tuesday, President Trump and some businesses sought to ease restrictions that have severely limited daily life. Mr. Trump on Tuesday night signed an executive order declaring meat processing plants “critical infrastructure,” and earlier this week told governors to consider reopening school districts before the end of the academic year. In the private sector, the country’s largest operator of malls has developed a plan to reopen 49 shopping centers across 10 states starting on Friday. Still, many facets of American life seem sure to be crippled into the summer. Even with Mr. Trump’s encouragement, and weeks of growing impatience from parents and children, few governors are considering the idea of reopening schools before summer. Gov. Gavin Newsom of California did raise the idea that the next academic year might begin in July to make up for lost time. Early returns to pre-pandemic routines will surely be substantially altered, as health officials have stressed that returning too quickly to cluttered school hallways or grocery store aisles could set off another round of rapid infections. Simon Property Group, the mall operator, hopes its game plan for reopening shopping centers will be enough to fend off that possibility. When the centers begin reopening on Friday, security officers and employees will “actively remind and encourage shoppers” to stay away from others and to refrain from shopping in groups. Food court seating will be spaced apart, and reusable trays will be banished. In restrooms, every other sink and urinal will be taped off. A memo from the company provides a glimpse of how the broader American shopping experience is likely to look as the country begins to slowly reopen. But the success of such an approach depends largely on whether retailers will also decide to reopen stores and whether the public will feel comfortable going to malls when tests for the virus remain difficult to get. How Greece has defied the odds. For years, Greece has been seen as one of the European Union’s most troubled members, weighed down by a financial crisis, corruption and political instability. But in the coronavirus pandemic, the country has emerged as a welcome surprise: its outbreak appears to be far more limited than what was expected. As the virus spread across Europe, many Greeks feared the worst: They would be the next Italy or Spain. After all, the country’s health care system had been weakened by a decade-long financial crisis. And Greece has one of the oldest populations in the European Union, second only to Italy, leaving it more vulnerable to the disease. But the number of reported deaths and people in intensive care because of the virus in Greece has remained a tiny fraction of what they are in many other European nations. Now, a country that has grown used to being seen as a problem child in the European Union is celebrating its government’s response and looking forward to reopening its economy. Because Greece has tested a very small percentage of its population, it is impossible to know how extensively the virus has spread in the country. But its total deaths have been low — 138 in a population of about 10.7 million — a surprise to experts, especially given the elderly population. And a big relief. Only 69,833 people have been tested for the virus in Greece, but experts agree that the country’s decision to quickly enforce social distancing measures and fortify its ailing health care system helped curb the outbreak. So did a willingness from most Greeks to comply with the orders. China’s propaganda attempt in Philippines backfires. The music video was supposed to be a propaganda win for the Chinese government. It had a slick soundtrack, appearances by young pop idols and a syrupy chorus that declared, “You and I are in the same ocean.” Instead, the four-minute video, released last week by the Chinese embassy in Manila to promote China’s efforts to help the Philippines fight the coronavirus, has unleashed widespread anger and derision at China. The video, titled “One Sea,” has resurfaced longtime concerns in Southeast Asia about China’s efforts to expand influence in the region, including in the hotly contested South China Sea. “The words are nothing but a mirage, full of good images but deceitful,” said one of the most popular comments on Facebook. The backlash highlights the challenges China faces as it tries to repair its global image amid growing criticism of its early efforts to cover up the coronavirus outbreak, which began in December in the central city of Wuhan. The Chinese government has dispatched medical supplies and experts overseas as it tries to win good will. But in many places, Beijing still faces skepticism and deep anger. The music video was supposed to help shore up support. Its lyrics were written by the Chinese ambassador to the Philippines, Huang Xilian. The video shows Chinese medical teams delivering aid in the Philippines, and it features a clip of the Philippines president, Rodrigo Duterte, thanking China’s top leader, Xi Jinping, for his support during the crisis. The video was panned almost immediately, with internet users in the Philippines, Malaysia and other Southeast Asian countries denouncing it as out of touch. “No problem with helping one another,” wrote a Facebook user with the name Marjan Nur Salonga Salandanan, “but get out of our seas, please.” China is itself emerging from the worst of the outbreak, and after more than two months of delay because of the coronavirus pandemic, China’s legislature will finally hold its annual full session starting on May 22, official media announced Wednesday morning. The scheduling of the National People’s Congress session, a ritualized event held in the Great Hall of the People next to Tiananmen Square, is the latest sign of confidence in China that the virus is under control. Although China is still reporting some cases among people returning from overseas, including 21 more announced on Wednesday, cases of domestic transmission have slowed to a trickle. Iran slaughters 15 million baby chicks as poultry industry staggers. Iran is not only awash in unsold oil because of American sanctions and the global glut caused by the coronavirus. A precipitous drop in demand because of the pandemic has also hit the country with another immediate problem and a new scandal: millions of unsold chickens and the mass slaughter of baby chicks buried alive to reduce the supply. It was not supposed to be this way at this time of year for Iran’s poultry industry, one of the largest in the Middle East. Ordinarily chicken sales peak over the month of Ramadan for the iftar banquets at homes and in restaurants, when Iranians break their fasts by dining on grilled saffron chicken and other staple specialties of the holiday. But now the livelihoods of chicken breeders and poulterers have been upended by the pandemic. Restaurants, hotels and event spaces catering to weddings and funerals have remained closed since the middle of March even as Iran has gradually reopened many businesses. Chicken sales have plunged by at least 35 percent. As supply rapidly outpaced demand, poultry factories killed 15 million one-day-old chicks this month. A truck dumped hoards of tiny fluffy birds into a ditch where they were buried alive, according to videos that went viral on Iranian media. The chick mass grave created an uproar among Iranians, and many blamed it on what they called the government’s lack of oversight. Iranians created a Twitter hashtag for the chicks, with many wondering if they could have been donated and grown to feed low-income families. The parliament has said it would investigate. But poultry industry leaders warned this week that they would soon have to slaughter millions of adult chickens if the government did not step in with financial assistance. “The chickens are fully grown but there is no place to keep them, no feed and no vaccines for them and no buyers,” Nasir Nabipour, the head of Iran’s poultry union, was quoted as saying Monday in Iranian media. Iran’s poultry industry produces about 2 billion chickens annually on 20,000 farms, according to Iranian media. It exports 100,000 tons of chicken to the region and beyond in Asia. The waves are spectacular. The surfers aren’t happy. They called it the Covid-19 swell. Spectacular waves more than 25 feet high barreled on Tahiti’s famed Teahupo’o reef that day a month ago. Audible from miles away, Teahupo’o — home of the 2024 surfing events of the Paris Olympics — normally echoes like thunderous Morse code, calling in the best surfers from every corner of the globe. They would have buzzed to the reef by the dozen, spilling out of boats and riding Jet Skis to tow into waves as film crews in helicopters circled above. But this time, very few people were out. “Not even one boat,’’ said Tikanui Smith, a Tahiti local and professional surfer whose exploits at Teahupo’o have earned him multiple Ride of the Year nominations from the World Surf League. Something similar happened as a southern swell broke at Pleasure Point in Santa Cruz County, Calif., on April 9, the first day of what would be a weeklong beach ban. “All we could do was stand there and watch it break,” said Kyle Thiermann, a professional surfer. “On a day that good, usually there are 100 surfers in the water. It made me feel like I’d jumped in a time machine and landed in a time before surfing.” From Bali to Brazil, Costa Rica to California, the pandemic has widely shut down surfing, either through outright bans on access to beaches or from the inability of surfers to travel to them. But enough spots remain open to foment a schism between surfers who are able to get in the ocean and those stuck at home. The World Surf League suspended its Championship Tour on March 12, just two weeks before its opening event on Australia’s Gold Coast. The annual tour takes surfers to some of the world’s most famous waves — from the Eastern Cape of South Africa to the North Shore of Oahu, Hawaii. The announcement rocked the surf world. Four days later, the league canceled or postponed all of its events through May. Migrant dormitories in Singapore make social distancing nearly impossible. Singapore has seen a surge of coronavirus cases among migrant workers, after months of successfully controlling the outbreak. As of Tuesday, coronavirus cases linked to migrant worker dormitories accounted for 88 percent of Singapore’s 14,446 cases, including more than 1,400 new cases in a single day. Many migrant workers live on the outskirts of the city in dormitories that can house up to 20 people per room, making it almost impossible to follow social distancing guidelines. Migrant workers around the world have been among the most vulnerable groups affected by the pandemic, and those in Singapore have long struggled with access to medical care. Singapore has traced the contacts of people infected with the coronavirus and released detailed information about clusters of cases. An analysis of the data shows how the virus has spread rapidly among migrant worker dormitories. The government has directed all laborers living in dormitories to stop working until May 4, imposing a stay-at-home order for 180,000 foreign workers in the construction sector. The government has also declared 25 dormitories as isolation areas, where workers are confined to their rooms. Transient Workers Count Too, an advocacy group for migrant workers in Singapore, criticized the plan to quarantine such a large population together, comparing the lockdown to situations on cruise ships in which cases multiplied uncontrollably even when passengers were kept to their rooms. More than 20 percent of Singapore’s population of 5.7 million are foreign workers. Many come from Bangladesh and India, and they work in construction, shipping, manufacturing and domestic service sectors. The breakdown of nationalities among the confirmed cases shows that workers from these countries have been disproportionately affected. Reporting was contributed by Joanna Berendt, Melissa, Eddy, Abdi Latif Dahir, Norimitsu Onishi, Constant Méheut, Javier C. Hernández, Megan Specia, Kenneth Chang, Thomas Erdbrink, Farnaz Fassihi, Christina Anderson, Iliana Magra, Nicholas Bogel-Burroughs, Keith Bradsher, Adam Skolnick, Andrew Higgins, Jennifer Valentino-DeVries, Natasha Singer, Aaron Krol, Weiyi Cai and K.K. Rebecca Lai. The Coronavirus Outbreak Frequently Asked Questions and Advice Updated April 11, 2020 When will this end? This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days. How can I help? The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.) What should I do if I feel sick? If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. Should I wear a mask? The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. How do I get tested? If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. How does coronavirus spread? It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face. Is there a vaccine yet? No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away. What makes this outbreak so different? Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard. What if somebody in my family gets sick? If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently. Should I stock up on groceries? Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home. Can I go to the park? Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea. Should I pull my money from the markets? That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years. What should I do with my 401(k)? Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions