https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/29/nyregion/coronavirus-new-york-update.html?type=styln-live-updates&label=new york &index=2#link-71048dff
Mayor Breaks Up Crowd at Rabbi’s Funeral: Latest Updates - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index New York Today’s Paper New York|Mayor Breaks Up Crowd at Rabbi’s Funeral: Latest Updates https://nyti.ms/2KLr186 The Coronavirus Outbreak debugid:204 • Latest Updates Maps and Tracker New Symptom List Markets Life at Home Newsletter AdvertisementContinue reading the main story LIVE UPDATESUpdated April 29, 2020, 8:15 a.m. ETApril 29, 2020, 8:15 a.m. ET Mayor Breaks Up Crowd at Rabbi’s Funeral: Latest Updates Mayor Bill de Blasio called the gathering in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, “absolutely unacceptable,” but some leaders accused him of a double standard. Right Now More than 5,000 construction projects have reopened in New York City, offering glimmers of an economic rebound. Here’s what you need to know: A Hasidic funeral in Brooklyn drew a huge crowd, and the mayor’s wrath. Governor Cuomo called the sight of homeless people sleeping on the subway ‘disgusting.’ Far from home, nurses from other states fight on New York’s front lines. Building sites reopen, carefully, in a sign of life gearing back up. New virus admissions at N.Y. hospitals have fallen 70 percent. Confirmed cases and deaths in New York State 0 5,000 10,000 cases Feb. 26 Apr. 28 7-day average New cases Total Cases 295,137 Deaths 17,638 See maps of the coronavirus outbreak in New York » Image Williamsburg, Brooklyn, after a Hasidic funeral drew a large crowd.Credit...Jonah Markowitz for The New York Times A Hasidic funeral in Brooklyn drew a huge crowd, and the mayor’s wrath. Mayor Bill de Blasio lashed out at Hasidic residents of Williamsburg, Brooklyn, Tuesday night after personally overseeing the police’s dispersal of a large crowd gathered for the funeral of a rabbi, Chaim Mertz, who died of the coronavirus. Mr. de Blasio warned “the Jewish community, and all communities” on Twitter that violating social-distancing guidelines could lead to summonses or arrest. “Something absolutely unacceptable happened in Williamsburg tonite,” Mr. de Blasio wrote. “What I saw WILL NOT be tolerated so long as we are fighting the Coronavirus.” New York’s ultra-Orthodox Hasidic communities have been hit especially hard by the virus — one Brooklyn resident called the disease “a plague on a biblical scale” — and the Hasidim’s tendency to congregate in big groups at funerals and other events has been held partly responsible. But Jewish leaders and others pointed out that Mr. de Blasio’s diatribe came on the same day that New Yorkers clustered in large dense crowds to watch a flyover by the Blue Angels fighter-jet squadron and accused the mayor of a double standard. “Huge crowds for the Blue Angels today,” Erin Biba, a journalist, wrote on Twitter, “but DeBlasio doesn’t utter a word about it. He was too busy personally heading over to Williamsburg to yell at Jews.” Governor Cuomo called the sight of homeless people sleeping on the subway ‘disgusting.’ Video transcript Back bars 0:00/1:19 -1:19 transcript Cuomo Calls Crowds of Homeless on Subways ‘Disgusting’ Gov. Andrew Cuomo said homeless people sleeping on New York City’s subway trains during the coronavirus outbreak was putting essential workers at risk. The New York Daily News ran a story today on the public transportation in New York City. And the front page is a picture of a subway car filled with homeless people, and their belongings. Respect the essential workers. That is disgusting, what is happening on those subway cars. It’s disrespectful to the essential workers who need to ride the subway system. Upstate New York, need to ride the buses to get to work. They deserve better, and they will have better. We have to have a public transportation system that is clean, where the trains are disinfected. You have homeless people on trains. It’s not even safe for the homeless people to be on trains. No face masks. You have this whole outbreak. We’re concerned about homeless people. So we let them stay on the trains without protection? In this epidemic of the Covid virus, no, we have to do better than that. And we will. Gov. Andrew Cuomo said homeless people sleeping on New York City’s subway trains during the coronavirus outbreak was putting essential workers at risk.CreditCredit...Cindy Schultz for The New York Times Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo on Tuesday waded into a struggle between New York City and the state agency that runs the city’s transit system over the issue of homeless people sleeping on subway trains. At his daily briefing, Mr. Cuomo held up a front-page photo in The Daily News of homeless people camping on subway trains. “That is disgusting, what is happening on those subway cars,” he said, adding that what was shown in the image was “disrespectful to the essential workers” who rely on the subway. “It’s not even safe for the homeless people to be on trains,” he added. “No face masks, you have this whole outbreak, we’re concerned about homeless people, so we let them stay on the trains without protection in this epidemic of the Covid virus? No. We have to do better than that, and we will.” He did not elaborate on what measures would be taken, but he said in a subsequent radio interview on WCBS said that the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which runs the subways, needed to “take dramatic action and they have to take it now.” Mr. Cuomo called on the authority, which he effectively controls, to tell him what steps needed to be taken. Tensions between City Hall and the authority over what to do about homeless people sleeping on trains and in stations had been building long before the virus outbreak hit the city. As subway ridership has plummeted during the ensuing shutdown, there is evidence that more homeless people are using largely empty trains for sleeping. Advocates for homeless people said that many of them are avoiding dormitory-style city shelters where the virus has spread and killed dozens. On Monday, Mayor Blasio said the city would increase outreach efforts for homeless people at subway stations and provide 200 more shelter beds. He also asked the authority to temporarily close 10 end-of-the-line stations from midnight to 5 a.m. But the M.T.A. said the issue was the mayor’s to fix. “It should not have taken a global pandemic for the City to do a job the M.T.A. has called on it to do for years,” a spokeswoman for the agency said. Far from home, nurses from other states fight on New York’s front lines. Each night at dusk, in an otherwise desolate Times Square, hundreds of nurses in blue scrubs gather to board buses that take them to hospitals across New York City. Of the thousands of nurses who have come from other states to shore up New York’s hospitals, more than 4,000 are staying in Midtown Manhattan. During the day, many rest at their hotels, amid darkened Broadway marquees, quiet streets and boarded up shops. At night, they face crowded hospital corridors, panicked patients and strained intensive care units — and death. “I have never seen patients so sick before,’’ said Tamara Williams, a 40-year-old nurse from Dallas. “And dying, despite everything that we’re doing.” Even as the daily death toll has fallen in recent weeks, the coronavirus is still spreading — nearly 20,000 people tested positive in New York City in the last week. Heather Smith from Topsail Island, off the coast of North Carolina, said that after seeing so many patients die, she wondered if she made a difference. “Every day you go in and you’re like, ‘Can I do this for one more day? Why did I wake up?’” Building sites reopen, carefully, in a sign of life gearing back up. On the Far West Side of Manhattan, construction workers start every morning having their temperatures taken with a thermal forehead scanner. On service elevators at the high-rise development, they stand on floor markings to maintain social distance. City building inspectors often show up unannounced, issuing warnings and fines if safety procedures are being ignored. The construction industry, which helped power New York City’s tremendous growth in recent years, is starting to reawaken, offering glimmers of an economic rebound and a glimpse of how the coronavirus pandemic is changing workplaces in the outbreak’s U.S. epicenter. “I would have to say that the industry has evolved very rapidly to adapt to our current environment regarding the coronavirus,” said Gary LaBarbera, the president of the Building and Construction Trades Council of Greater New York, which represents more than 100,000 union members. New virus admissions at N.Y. hospitals have fallen 70 percent. The number of virus patients newly admitted to hospitals in New York State has fallen more than 70 percent since the outbreak’s peak earlier this month, according to statistics that Mr. Cuomo cited on Tuesday. Admissions reported Tuesday were below 1,000 for the first time in over a month, down from more than 3,000 reported on April 4 — further evidence that the outbreak was waning. Deaths from the virus remained flat — 335 more people died, Mr. Cuomo said, an almost identical figure to the 337 deaths reported on Monday. Are you a health care worker in the New York area? Tell us what you’re seeing. As The New York Times follows the spread of the coronavirus across New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, we need your help. We want to talk to doctors, nurses, lab technicians, respiratory therapists, emergency services workers, nursing home managers — anyone who can share what’s happening in the region’s hospitals and other health care centers. A reporter or editor may contact you. Your information will not be published without your consent. Reporting was contributed by Jonah Engel Bromwich, Michael Gold, Jenny Gross, Matthew Haag, Andy Newman, Liam Stack and Matt Stevens. The Coronavirus Outbreak Frequently Asked Questions and Advice Updated April 11, 2020 When will this end? This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days. How can I help? The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.) What should I do if I feel sick? If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. Should I wear a mask? The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. How do I get tested? If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. How does coronavirus spread? It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face. Is there a vaccine yet? No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away. What makes this outbreak so different? Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard. What if somebody in my family gets sick? If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently. Should I stock up on groceries? Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home. Can I go to the park? Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea. Should I pull my money from the markets? That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years. What should I do with my 401(k)? Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions