https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/states-reopen-map-coronavirus.html
See Which States Are Reopening and Which Are Still Shut Down - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index U.S. Today’s Paper U.S.|See Which States Are Reopening and Which Are Still Shut Down https://nyti.ms/2Y37Ezj Advertisement See Which States Are Reopening and Which Are Still Shut Down By Sarah Mervosh and Jasmine C. LeeUpdated April 27, 2020 Partial reopening Order expiring by April 30 Shut down or restricted Click a state to see more detail After weeks of shutdown, the nation is beginning to slowly, cautiously re-emerge. The first beaches and state parks have opened back up, beacons of open space and fresh air. A few barbers have returned to work, clippers in hand, masks over their faces. Even some restaurants are getting ready to serve customers again — at tables spread far apart. Like the decisions to shut down and order residents to stay at home, the plans to reopen have come state by state or region by region. They have brought sighs of relief in some corners but kindled fears of a resurgence in others. Here is a look at which states are reopening, and how soon. Select a location Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Reopening The first businesses were allowed to reopen in some states, including retail stores in South Carolina and salons, barbershops and tattoo parlors in Georgia. Even as some states begin to reopen, orders may remain in place by city or county, creating a patchwork of restrictions. Alaska Stay at home in effect since March 28 Gov. Mike Dunleavy, a Republican, eased restrictions on restaurants, retail stores and nonessential businesses, including hair and nail salons, which were allowed to begin reopening starting April 24. The restart, among the first in the nation, came with strict requirements. For example, restaurants can take reservations only — not walk-ins — and can seat up to 25 percent capacity. Read more » Colorado Stay at home expired on April 26 As the state’s stay-at-home order expired, Gov. Jared Polis asked Colorado to transition to a “safer at home” approach. In the new phase, retail businesses are allowed to open for curbside pickup and real estate showings can resume. On May 1, personal care businesses, like hair salons, will be able to reopen with precautions. But Mr. Polis, a Democrat, said he still expected people to maintain 60 to 65 percent physical distancing. “We still have work to do,” he said. “We are not through the woods yet.” Read more » Georgia Shelter in place set to expire April 30 Gov. Brian Kemp went toe-to-toe with the White House and local mayors over his decision to reopen large parts of Georgia’s economy. Mr. Kemp’s plan allowed gyms, hair and nail salons, bowling alleys and tattoo parlors to reopen on April 24. Starting April 27, restaurants are allowed to resume limited dine-in service, and movie theaters and other entertainment venues will also be allowed to reopen. But Mr. Kemp, a Republican, laid out certain requirements — including screening workers for fevers — and said it would not be “business as usual.” Read more » Minnesota Stay at home set to expire May 3 Though the stay-at-home order is in effect into May, Gov. Tim Walz, a Democrat, will allow employees in certain agriculture, industrial and office settings to return to work starting April 27. The move will allow as many as 100,000 residents to return to work, his office said. Read more » Mississippi Shelter in place expired on April 27 Some retail stores began reopening at half-capacity in Mississippi, after the stay-at-home order expired on April 27. Gov. Tate Reeves, a Republican, lifted restrictions on certain businesses, but others, including gyms, spas and pet groomers, remained closed. Read more » Montana Stay at home expired on April 26 Plans are underway to reopen Montana in phases, beginning with houses of worship on April 26 and retail stores on April 27. Restaurants and bars are expected to reopen in some form beginning May 4. “Our new normal is going to look different,” Gov. Steve Bullock, a Democrat, said. “This virus isn’t gone from Montana.” Read more » Oklahoma No stay-at-home order statewide, but other restrictions in place Oklahoma was among a handful of states where governors did not issue formal stay-at-home orders. Gov. Kevin Stitt, a Republican, lifted restrictions on businesses starting with salons, barbers and pet groomers on April 24. Restaurant dining, movie theaters, gyms, houses of worship and sporting venues are expected to reopen statewide — with certain restrictions — starting May 1. Read more » South Carolina Stay at home in effect since April 7 Gov. Henry McMaster, a Republican, was among the last to issue a stay-at-home order and was also among the first to begin opening up his state, starting April 20. The reopening began with retail stores, which are under instructions to operate at 20 percent capacity. Read more » Tennessee Stay at home set to expire April 30 Though the state’s stay-at-home order is in effect through April 30, Gov. Bill Lee, a Republican, announced plans for restaurants to reopen starting April 27, with retail stores to follow. Newly reopened businesses will be under instructions to operate at 50-percent capacity. Read more » Expiring soon Several states have stay-at-home orders that are scheduled to lift by the end of April. Governors could choose to let them expire, or to extend them. In some states, it’s also possible that stay-at-home orders will lift separately from restrictions for restaurants and other businesses. Alabama Stay at home set to expire April 30 Read more » Arizona Stay at home set to expire April 30 Read more » Florida Stay at home set to expire April 30 Read more » Idaho Stay at home set to expire April 30 Gov. Brad Little, a Republican, outlined a detailed, tentative plan for reopening that would come in four stages. The first phase would begin with houses of worship in early May. The approach would ramp up reopening with restaurants, gyms and salons later that month. But some recreational venues — like nightclubs and movie theaters — are expected to remain closed until at least late June. Read more » Maine Stay at home set to expire April 30 Read more » Nevada Stay at home set to expire April 30 Read more » Texas Stay at home set to expire April 30 Gov. Greg Abbott said he would allow his stay-at-home order to lapse on April 30, a move that would give Texas one of the shortest such orders in the country. Mr. Abbott, a Republican, said that Texas was not as hard-hit as other states, had expanded testing, stocked up on protective equipment equipment and had the third-most coronavirus recoveries in the country. As part of reopening, all retail stores, restaurants, movie theaters and malls can reopen on May 1, with limited capacity. Read more » Shut down or restricted Other states, notably New York, California and Illinois, remain on lockdown, with shutdown orders firmly in place. A handful of states never issued formal stay-at-home orders but did place restrictions on restaurants, bars and public life that remain in place. Arkansas No stay-at-home order statewide, but other restrictions in place Read more » California Stay at home in effect since March 19 Read more » Connecticut Stay at home in effect since March 23 Read more » Delaware Shelter in place in effect since March 24 Read more » District of Columbia Stay at home in effect since April 1 Read more » Hawaii Stay at home in effect since March 25 Read more » Illinois Stay at home in effect since March 21 The stay-at-home order in Illinois is shaping up to be one of the lengthiest in the country after Gov. J.B. Pritzker announced plans to extend the order through the end of May. But Mr. Pritzker, a Democrat, also loosened restrictions on certain outdoor activities. Starting May 1, state parks will begin to reopen, and golfing will be allowed under strict social distancing rules. Read more » Indiana Stay at home in effect since March 24 Gov. Eric Holcomb, a Republican, extended the state’s stay-at-home order until May 1, but he loosened restrictions on certain businesses, such as greenhouses, plant nurseries and pet groomers. Restrictions on routine medical procedures are scheduled to lift on April 27. Read more » Iowa No stay-at-home order statewide, but other restrictions in place Read more » Kansas Stay at home in effect since March 30 Read more » Kentucky Healthy at home in effect since March 26 Read more » Louisiana Stay at home in effect since March 23 Read more » Maryland Stay at home in effect since March 30 Read more » Massachusetts Stay at home advisory in effect since March 24 Read more » Michigan Stay at home in effect since March 24 Gov. Gretchen Whitmer, a Democrat, extended Michigan’s stay-at-home order until May 15, but she lifted some restrictions, including on landscaping, nurseries and bicycle repair businesses. Retail stores are allowed to reopen for curbside pick-up and delivery. Read more » Missouri Stay at home in effect since April 6 Read more » Nebraska No stay-at-home order statewide, but other restrictions in place Read more » New Hampshire Stay at home in effect since March 27 Read more » New Jersey Stay at home in effect since March 21 Read more » New Mexico Stay at home in effect since March 24 Read more » New York Stay at home in effect since March 22 Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat who has become a national player in the handling of the coronavirus outbreak, laid out a broad outline for a gradual restart in New York allowing some “low-risk” businesses upstate to reopen as soon as mid-May. He did not speculate about when restrictions would be eased in New York City and its surrounding suburbs, which have been hardest hit by the virus. Read more » North Carolina Stay at home in effect since March 30 Read more » North Dakota No stay-at-home order statewide, but other restrictions in place Read more » Ohio Stay at home in effect since March 23 Gov. Mike DeWine announced a cautious reopening plan that included resuming health care appointments on May 1, and the reopening of retail stores starting May 12. But Mr. DeWine, a Republican whose approach has been among the most aggressive, said that other businesses — including restaurants and salons — would have to wait. “We are not quite there yet,” he said. Read more » Oregon Stay at home in effect since March 23 Read more » Pennsylvania Stay at home in effect since April 1 Gov. Tom Wolf, a Democrat who took a county-by-county approach to restrictions before issuing a statewide stay-at-home order, has said he will take a similar approach to reopening. His plan for reopening will be color-coded and come in phases — red, yellow and green — starting with the northwestern and central parts of the state. Read more » Rhode Island Stay at home in effect since March 28 Read more » South Dakota No stay-at-home order statewide, but other restrictions in place Read more » Utah No stay-at-home order statewide, but other restrictions in place Read more » Vermont Stay at home in effect since March 25 Read more » Virginia Stay at home in effect since March 30 Read more » Washington Stay at home in effect since March 23 Read more » West Virginia Stay at home in effect since March 24 Read more » Wisconsin Stay at home in effect since March 25 Read more » Wyoming No stay-at-home order statewide, but other restrictions in place Read more » Tracking the Coronavirus World Deaths U.S. cities Look up your city State shutdown status Countries Brazil Canada France Germany India Italy U.K. United States State by state Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington Washington, D.C. West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Nadja Popovich and Jugal K. Patel contributed reporting. Advertisement Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions