https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/29/nyregion/coronavirus-nyc-volunteers-location-scouts.html
When N.Y. Needed Hospital Space, Film Location Scouts Pitched In - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index New York Today’s Paper New York|When N.Y. Needed Hospital Space, Film Location Scouts Pitched In https://nyti.ms/3aHJzRi The Coronavirus Outbreak debugid:204 • Latest Updates Maps and Tracker New Symptom List Markets Life at Home Newsletter AdvertisementContinue reading the main story When N.Y. Needed Hospital Space, Film Location Scouts Pitched In Enterprising creative workers, like artists, photographers and students, are using their unique skills to help the city through the pandemic. Laura Anderson Barbata, an artist who makes her own costumes for shows, got busy making masks. Credit...Caitlin Ochs for The New York Times By Jane Margolies April 29, 2020Updated 5:23 a.m. ET Jennifer Lyne, a location scout for film and television, knows New York in an unusually granular way. Always on the lookout for the perfect spot, she is constantly schmoozing with property managers, gathering contact information and snapping photos. That is how she was able to find a period-perfect restaurant bar for the television series “Boardwalk Empire” and the alley where Harrison Ford’s detective investigates a murder in the movie “Random Hearts.” So late last month, when the coronavirus was gaining momentum and the Greater New York Hospital Association convened a task force to locate buildings for hospital overflow, Ms. Lyne, as well as other film scouts, volunteered. “We all love the city,” Ms. Lyne said. “I knew they would step up.” Battle-tested by the AIDS crisis, the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 and Hurricane Sandy, New Yorkers are once again pitching in, delivering meals to hospital workers or shopping for older neighbors. More than 12,300 people have volunteered through the Covid-19 relief campaign of New York Cares, an organization that matches those offering help with those in need. But as the cultural and financial capital of the world, New York is home to people with niche talents and expertise, from fashion designers to tech wizards. They want to help, too. And they are getting creative. Take Laura Anderson Barbata, a Mexican-born artist who lives in Bushwick, Brooklyn. Her performance art often involves making costumes by hand. As the pandemic spread and she felt the “urgent need” to help out, she said, she eyed a heap of blue-and-white printed fabric left over from a recent project. Image Credit...Caitlin Ochs for The New York Times Image Credit...Caitlin Ochs for The New York Times Soon she had taught herself to make masks and was donating them to fellow tenants of her apartment building, to a cleaning crew working in a Bronx public school and to homeless shelters, including one in East Williamsburg, Brooklyn, where there were masks for residents, but not staffers. Latest Updates: Coronavirus Outbreak in New York A Hasidic funeral in Brooklyn drew a huge crowd, and the mayor’s wrath. Governor Cuomo called the sight of homeless people sleeping on the subway ‘disgusting.’ Far from home, nurses from other states fight on New York’s front lines. See more updates Updated 16m ago More live coverage: Global Markets U.S. “The air of the staff completely changed when we were able to give them masks,” said Elizabeth Fasanya, the director of the shelter, operated by Project Renewal. “The color prints lift people’s moods.” Samantha Casolari, an Italian-born photographer who lives in Williamsburg, found a different way to channel her artistry: an online sale of photographs to benefit embattled Elmhurst Hospital Center. The fund-raiser, Pictures for Elmhurst, raised nearly $1.4 million to buy ventilators, surgical masks, goggles and disposable scrubs. Ms. Casolari and a small team, which included the photographer Jody Rogac, first asked photographers they knew to donate digital files so that prints could be made and sold for $150 each. After Pictures for Elmhurst gained momentum, they approached world-famous photographers, like Martin Parr and Rineke Dijkstra. “Of course everyone said yes,” Ms. Rogac said. Antwuan Sargent, an art critic and author of “The New Black Vanguard: Photography between Art and Fashion,” purchased prints by Tyler Mitchell, the first black artist to have a photograph on the cover of Vogue, and four others. He learned of the fund-raiser on Instagram. “I looked through and thought, I want that, I want that, I want that,” Mr. Sargent said. The items that Lisa Kobs-Berrios and her husband, David Berrios, are selling in their own fund-raiser are not nearly as highbrow. But with backgrounds in marketing and luxury accessories, the couple has been able to raise thousands for hungry children. Mrs. Kobs-Berrios and Mr. Berrios were hit with inspiration while taking their toddler, Rio, on walks through Morningside Heights in Manhattan. They often stop to watch fire trucks, which he adores. His parents noticed the signs on the rear of the trucks that said, “Keep back 200 feet.” That gave them the idea of having hats printed with “Keep Back 6 Feet” to encourage social distancing. They decided to sell them and donate the proceeds to the nonprofit No Kid Hungry. Image Credit...Lisa Kōbs Image Credit...Lisa Kōbs The couple quickly found an online custom hat distributor, placed an order for baseball caps and knit beanies and created a website. They had a bump in sales when Nicolas Heller, known on Instagram as New York Nico — he of the #BestNYAccent challenge — posted a photo of himself wearing a blue Keep Back 6 Feet beanie. So far, the fund-raiser’s proceeds will cover 20,000 meals. Over at Cornell Tech on Roosevelt Island, a group of students, suddenly with time on their hands and a desire to contribute, decided to offer remote tech support to older neighbors. Sadik Antwi-Boampong, one of the students coordinating the effort, talked a couple through a Medicare application by chatting with them on Google Hangout. Georganna Galateau, 73, desperately wanted to catch up with a younger friend in Rome but found herself mystified when her friend suggested a popular app. “She said WhatsApp and I said, ‘What’s that?’” Image Rony Krell, a health technology graduate student, right, coached Georganna Galateau, bottom, through a WhatsApp call with her friend in Rome.Credit...Rony Krell Image Mr. Krell in action.Credit...Max Zeng Rony Krell, 28, a health technology graduate student, spoke to Ms. Galateau on her landline and explained how to download and use the app on her cellphone. When Ms. Galateau couldn’t manage it on her own, they scheduled a second call, and Mr. Krell stayed on the line while Ms. Galateau and her friend in Rome, who hadn’t seen each other in 10 years, were reunited. “It meant so much to my heart,” Ms. Galateau said. Jennifer Lyne, the location scout who participated in the hospital task force, was at first daunted by the idea of joining a group of architects, engineers and other experts in designing and building health care facilities. But it’s one thing to be involved in a yearslong effort to build a facility that will last decades; it’s another to quickly find a site, obtain permission to use it temporarily and get it up and running. This was basically her job in film and television. And with the coronavirus, speed was crucial. When someone floated the idea of placing patients on a couple of empty floors in the old Victory Memorial Hospital in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, Susan Pazos, a fellow scout, was able to immediately upload photos of the building because she had already been there checking it out for the television series “FBI.” “That was a great feeling,” Ms. Lyne said. Image When the old Victory Memorial Hospital in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, was considered for patient overflow, Susan Pazos, a location scout, uploaded her photos of the building.Credit...Susan Pazos Image Credit...Susan Pazos In the end, hospitals in New York were able to handle more Covid-19 patients than originally expected, and the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center and U.S.N.S. Comfort picked up the slack. The task force’s findings are being written up in case the information is needed during a second wave of the virus. The report will also be shared with other cities that may have to ramp up hospital capacity the way New York did. It was, as Ms. Lyne called it, “the ultimate scout.” The Coronavirus Outbreak Frequently Asked Questions and Advice Updated April 11, 2020 When will this end? This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days. How can I help? The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.) What should I do if I feel sick? If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. Should I wear a mask? The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. How do I get tested? If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. How does coronavirus spread? It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face. Is there a vaccine yet? No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away. What makes this outbreak so different? Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard. What if somebody in my family gets sick? If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently. Should I stock up on groceries? Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home. Can I go to the park? Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea. Should I pull my money from the markets? That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years. What should I do with my 401(k)? Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions