https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/28/nyregion/nyc-construction-coronavirus-safety.html
N.Y. Building Sites Reopen, Carefully, in Sign of Life Gearing Back Up - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index New York Today’s Paper New York|N.Y. Building Sites Reopen, Carefully, in Sign of Life Gearing Back Up https://nyti.ms/3bO4Mdx The Coronavirus Outbreak debugid:204 • Latest Updates Maps and Tracker New Symptom List • Markets Life at Home Newsletter AdvertisementContinue reading the main story N.Y. Building Sites Reopen, Carefully, in Sign of Life Gearing Back Up More than 5,200 construction projects have reopened in New York City, offering a glimpse of new routines in postpandemic workplaces. At construction sites that are open, workers are getting their temperature taken before their shift begins.Credit...Gregg Vigliotti for The New York Times By Matthew Haag April 28, 2020 On the Far West Side of Manhattan, construction workers start every morning with a thermal forehead scan to take their temperatures. On service elevators at the high-rise development, they stand on floor markings to maintain social distancing. And when deliveries arrive, drivers stay behind the wheel while the haul is unloaded. City building inspectors often show up unannounced, issuing warnings and fines if safety procedures are being ignored. The construction industry, an engine that has helped power New York City’s tremendous growth in recent years, is slowly starting to reawaken, offering one of the first optimistic economic glimmers as the city struggles to recover. And it also provides a glimpse of how the coronavirus pandemic has fundamentally changed the workplace in the nation’s largest city and the epicenter of the outbreak. “I would have to say that the industry has evolved very rapidly to adapt to our current environment regarding the coronavirus,” said Gary LaBarbera, the president of the Building and Construction Trades Council of Greater New York, which represents more than 100,000 union members. Across the city, laborers are wearing respiratory masks not only while working but also during breaks. They are disinfecting their tools, something rarely done before, and contractors have installed additional hand-washing stations. The most significant changes, perhaps, could still be on the way. Representatives of labor groups and contractor companies are pushing the city to permit 24-hour construction at some locations to reduce the number of laborers on site at any one time. The rapid adjustments, while not universal across all job sites, have been embraced in an industry that prizes safety but has notoriously dirty job sites, often with few portable restrooms and no running water. Crews often share tools and work side by side. Latest Updates: Coronavirus Outbreak in New York Governor Cuomo called the sight of homeless people sleeping on subways ‘disgusting.’ Building sites reopen, carefully, in a sign of life gearing back up. Protesters gather in New Jersey as governor announces death count. See more updates Updated 10h ago More live coverage: Global Markets U.S. The changes were enacted only after construction workers spoke out in mid-March over workplace conditions, including a lack of protective gear and a reluctance to enforce health measures like social distancing. A month later, roughly 85 percent of the construction sites in New York City that were operating before the pandemic have come to a halt after the state revised its order and deemed them nonessential. But every day hundreds of job sites have opened back up as developers, contractors and labor groups have lobbied officials to get them running again. Roughly 5,200 construction projects were operating again as of Tuesday, from the Spiral office tower at Hudson Yards on the Far West Side to One Vanderbilt near Grand Central Terminal and home renovations in Far Rockaway, Queens. Governor Andrew M. Cuomo announced recently that the construction industry would be among the first categories of “low-risk” businesses allowed to return to normal as part of the state’s phased reopening scheduled to start as soon as mid-May. But some workers are dubious that work could soon resume safely. “There is no social distancing on a construction site,” said a carpenter who was told that his job site, a new hotel in Midtown Manhattan, would reopen on Wednesday. When the site reopens, it will have a turnstile to control who enters, additional hand-washing areas and running water, the contractor told the site’s workers, according to the carpenter, who requested anonymity because he did not have permission to speak with the news media. “They want to do all these protocols but nothing has been implemented yet,” the carpenter said. A site in Boerum Hill, Brooklyn, where a new single-family home is being built, was allowed to stay open until construction reached a point where it could be safely closed. “I saw more construction workers on the way into work than I’ve seen in a month,” said a construction superintendent at the site, who requested anonymity to discuss safety measures there. Four laborers, two on each floor, have their temperatures taken in the morning and are reminded to stay six feet apart. The city’s Department of Building said inspectors were monitoring construction sites, making sure that workers at open sites were practicing social distancing and that those deemed nonessential remained closed. Inspectors have also visited every closed construction site, roughly 30,000 of them, at least three times since the governor restricted construction work at the end of March. Of those sites, at least 115 were open and received violations, the department said. “There is absolutely no excuse for conditions that put workers, and therefore our entire city, at risk of spreading Covid-19,” Melanie E. La Rocca, the Building Department commissioner, said in a statement. “Lives are at stake.” As job sites come online, they look different in small but meaningful ways. The morning huddle and debriefing are now held in smaller groups. Hand-washing areas have been added to multiple floors, instead of only one on the ground floor. During breaks, workers are encouraged to stay in their area with distance between one another and avoid congregating. More telling perhaps, both contractors and labor groups are encouraging workers to speak up and stay home when they feel sick, an enormous cultural shift for workers accustomed to pushing through pain and illness. “People’s attitudes have changed,” said Christopher A. McFadden, a vice president at Turner Construction, which is building the Spiral, a 1,005-foot-tall office tower in Manhattan. “Part of looking out for each other and caring for your work group is staying home when you are sick.” The gradual reopening is part of a broader campaign by the construction and real estate industries to portray their work as vital to sustaining an economy currently on life support and fast-tracking its rebound. As part of that, construction unions and contractors, often at odds over contractual disagreements, have been negotiating major changes. The two sides are discussing new work schedules, including staggered start times to avoid a rush of workers at the same time. Most significant, the groups have been discussing a plan to allow round-the-clock construction at some projects. The city only allows construction to take place between 7 a.m. and 6 p.m. on weekdays without a special permit. Allowing 24-hour construction would mean fewer workers on site and near one another, the groups said. To avoid disrupting people working from home and incurring noise complaints, the 24-hour schedule would be permitted only at some sites after securing city approval. (A spokeswoman for Mayor Bill de Blasio said that allowing 24-hour construction “is not currently being discussed.”) “There is going to be a lot of thinking long term about how we restructure what we do,” said Carlo A. Scissura, the president of the New York Building Congress, a trade group. By its very nature, a lot of construction work is incompatible with concepts like social distancing. Installing walls, for instance, can require multiple people to work side by side. At a project next to Barclays Center in Brooklyn recently, a cluster of workers wearing masks huddled together to install a scaffolding base. Turner Construction said that it had started to review the entire supply chain of construction projects, looking to reduce the need for workers to be in proximity to one another. Some parts could be prefabricated in a factory, shipped to a job site and then installed with fewer workers, the company said. Suffolk Construction Company is planning to roll out new technology at construction sites, including thermal scanners, which can remotely detect a fever in a worker without using a hand-held tool. Workers will also attach a device to their hard hats that will track their movements and sound an alarm when they get within six feet of a colleague. Over time, the company said, data collected from those devices will allow the company to learn how people work and modify the workplace to keep people separated. The company consulted with an engineering professor in Singapore, where the construction industry has used the remote temperature-taking devices. “If you think about the challenge we face right now,” said Alex Hall, an executive vice president at Suffolk Construction, “we need something that gives us multiple almost simultaneous readings. We have to be attacking this on multiple fronts.” The Coronavirus Outbreak Frequently Asked Questions and Advice Updated April 11, 2020 When will this end? This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days. How can I help? The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.) What should I do if I feel sick? If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. Should I wear a mask? The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. How do I get tested? If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. How does coronavirus spread? It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face. Is there a vaccine yet? No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away. What makes this outbreak so different? Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard. What if somebody in my family gets sick? If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently. Should I stock up on groceries? Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home. Can I go to the park? Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea. Should I pull my money from the markets? That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years. What should I do with my 401(k)? Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions