https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/28/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen.html
Coronavirus Likely to Keep Schools Shut, Despite Trump's Wishes - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index U.S. Today’s Paper U.S.|Despite Trump’s Nudging, Schools Are Likely to Stay Shut for Months https://nyti.ms/3eZ6GKl The Coronavirus Outbreak debugid:204 • Latest Updates Maps and Tracker New Symptom List Markets Life at Home Newsletter AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Despite Trump’s Nudging, Schools Are Likely to Stay Shut for Months Most districts have no plans to end online lessons soon, and reopening will bring significant changes, educators say. An empty playground at Kent Middle School in Kentfield, Calif. Only a few states are considering the possibility of reopening schools before the summer break.Credit...Justin Sullivan/Getty Images By Shawn Hubler, Erica L. Green and Dana Goldstein April 28, 2020 SACRAMENTO — With students languishing, the economy stagnating and working parents straining to turn their kitchen tables into classrooms, the nation’s public schools have been working to bring children back to their desks, lockers and study halls. But despite President Trump’s prediction that “I think you’ll see a lot of schools open up,” all but a few states have suspended in-person classes for the rest of the academic year, and some are preparing for the possibility of shutdowns or part-time schedules in the fall. Gov. Gavin Newsom of California raised the idea on Tuesday that the next academic year could start as soon as July, to make up for the abbreviated spring term. But he cautioned that “if we pull back too quickly,” a fresh wave of the coronavirus could erupt. Illinois officials have gone even further, warning that remote learning could continue indefinitely. “This may be the new normal even in the fall,” said Janice Jackson, the chief executive of Chicago Public Schools. Gov. Philip D. Murphy of New Jersey, who like Mr. Newsom has school-age children at home, is one of the few state leaders who has left open the prospect of schools reopening this spring — if several benchmarks are first met. Whenever students do come back, classes are unlikely to look anything like the school days they remember. There may be staggered half-day classes or one-day-on, one-day-off schedules so desks can be spread out and buses can run half-empty. Students can expect school equipment to be sterilized and meals to be served at their desks or in socially distanced lunchrooms. Masked teachers and temperature checks at school doorways may be common. Forget note-passing, study groups and recess. And if new outbreaks surface, virtual classes may abruptly start up again. A few small, remote districts might try to reopen this spring, including the Shoshone School District in Lincoln County, Idaho, which serves 500 students. “We’re in the category of, ‘We don’t know,’” said Rob Waite, the superintendent. With small class sizes — the largest is 22 students — children could easily sit six feet apart. And on the bus, students who are not part of the same household could be assigned to sit in every other seat. “The No. 1 most important question we’re trying to ask is, is anything we’re doing putting our students in danger?” Mr. Waite said. Officials are also aware that the economy cannot function normally until children have places to safely spend the day while their parents work. Mr. Trump’s nudge on Monday, which came during a conversation with governors, occurred as oil prices slid and desperate small businesses crashed a federal website processing loan applications. Latest Updates: Coronavirus Outbreak in the U.S. 100 days, one million confirmed infections, and a country transformed. New C.D.C. statistics reveal more about the true toll. A report on the U.S. economy is going to be bad, and the Fed is weighing further interventions. See more updates Updated 46m ago More live coverage: Global Markets New York In Georgia, where Gov. Brian Kemp has aggressively pushed to revive the economy, officials said that a return to school would be an essential part of restoring a semblance of normalcy. “I think it’s going to be a cornerstone,” said Matt Jones, the chief of staff for the Georgia Department of Education. “There are certain elements of our society that are part of the fabric of who we are, and public education, and schooling, is just one of those things.” But Mr. Kemp has joined most governors in canceling in-person education through the academic year, which ends for most of Georgia’s public schools in mid-May. Mr. Jones said some districts were considering a restart of classes, at least in some limited form, in July for summer remedial programs. Others are hoping to return to normal in the fall. Districts are also feeling the economic impact of the pandemic, anticipating huge budget shortfalls. And teachers are eager to return to the classroom, saying they miss the energy of real-world interaction with students. Then there are the educational concerns. To make up for lost classroom time, schools may need to provide remedial instruction, additional special-education services and counseling, said Robin Lake, director of the Center on Reinventing Public Education. Policy experts are also debating whether students who lag behind in key skills should be held back a grade, or advanced with extra catch-up support. Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York City, who announced this month that the city’s 1.1 million students would not return to classrooms until September, has said that many children will have to make up for months of lost learning despite the city’s shift to remote instruction. But there is also a pervasive fear about what it would mean to bring students and teachers back together too quickly, given all that is unknown about how the virus spreads. Forcing educators to work at a perceived risk to their own health could be not only a public health danger but also a recipe for labor unrest in a heavily unionized sector. Janet Robinson, superintendent of Stratford Public Schools in Connecticut, said she was “horrified” to hear the president urging schools to open. Students in her district were among the first children in the state to test positive. Her staff, including teachers who are cancer survivors, are worried about being rushed back into the classroom. “I saw the president say, the kids don’t get sick,” Ms. Robinson said. “Well, they’re not in there all by themselves. And I’d hate for a little kid to come into the building, get the virus, and take it home. Then we’d start this thing all over again.” In nations that have begun to reopen schools, like Denmark, classes and other activities are being held partially outdoors. In China, where the pandemic began, students have returned not only to masks, but also to glass desk dividers, teachers in protective suits and lunch tables that keep them a meter apart, and at which talking is forbidden. At one school, basketballs were being disinfected individually. Some public health experts have suggested that younger children could be brought back before teenagers, who appear to be more susceptible to infection and are also more able to learn independently from home. Yet in parts of Germany, it has been older students who were welcomed back first, in part to take final exams from widely spaced desks. Those other countries have made faster strides than the United States in testing and contact tracing, however, raising questions about whether it is wise for American schools to forge ahead before the health system significantly advances its ability to combat the virus. In Los Angeles, where the nation’s second-largest public school system serves some 700,000 students, the superintendent, Austin Beutner, on Monday said “robust” testing and tracing would have to be a prerequisite to reopening. “We closed school facilities on March 13 so our schools did not become a petri dish and cause the virus to spread in the communities we serve,” Mr. Beutner said. “That’s worked. We do not want to reverse that in a hasty return to schools.” Lack of testing has remained an issue for states despite White House pledges to expand it. And the federal government has issued mixed guidance for districts since the outset of the pandemic, offering varying takes on the effectiveness of school closures. In Mr. Trump’s three-phase reopening plan, the federal government recommended that schools reopen in “Phase 2,” in which states were urged to limit gatherings to 50 people when social distancing was not possible. Educators balked, noting that schools typically house hundreds of staff members and students. “In the same breath that the guidance highlights a path forward in opening schools, it establishes a scenario where every single school would be in direct conflict with another recommendation,” Daniel A. Domenech, executive director of a national association of school superintendents, said in a statement. In most of the country, superintendents are still basing their plans on guidance from local and state health officials. More than 40 states have suspended in-person classes for the rest of the academic year, and districts are still focused on remote learning, virtual graduations and planning for summer and fall. Melonie Hau, the superintendent of Newcastle Public Schools in Oklahoma, said she had worried after seeing a handful of secretaries — allowed to work a few hours a week in the central office — gather around a desk to catch up on how their families were coping. “I’m concerned about bringing anyone back together in a building,” Ms. Hau said. “There’s just cultural things that come with being in the same room together, and to show appreciation for one another, that makes social distancing so hard in schools.” Like many superintendents, Ms. Hau has been weighing what reopening will look like, including suggestions of alternating the days that students attend. “It’s hard to imagine a schedule where you could make it work just halfway,” she said. “In my mind, we’re all in or we’re all out.” Shawn Hubler reported from Sacramento, Erica L. Green from Washington and Dana Goldstein from New York. Sarah Mervosh contributed reporting from Canton, Ohio; Julie Bosman from Chicago; Rick Rojas from Atlanta; Eliza Shapiro and Dan Levin from New York; Tracey Tully from Cranford, N.J.; Thomas Fuller from San Francisco; and Elaine Yu from Hong Kong. The Coronavirus Outbreak Frequently Asked Questions and Advice Updated April 11, 2020 When will this end? This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days. How can I help? The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.) What should I do if I feel sick? If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. Should I wear a mask? The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. How do I get tested? If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. How does coronavirus spread? It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face. Is there a vaccine yet? No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away. What makes this outbreak so different? Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard. What if somebody in my family gets sick? If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently. Should I stock up on groceries? Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home. Can I go to the park? Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea. Should I pull my money from the markets? That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years. What should I do with my 401(k)? Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions