https://www.nytimes.com/article/antibody-test-coronavirus.html
Coronavirus Antibody Test: What You Need to Know - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Smarter Living Today’s Paper Smarter Living|What You Need to Know About the Covid-19 Antibody Test https://nyti.ms/35cBaEq The Coronavirus Outbreak debugid:204 • Latest Updates Maps and Tracker New Symptom List Markets Life at Home Newsletter AdvertisementContinue reading the main story What You Need to Know About the Covid-19 Antibody Test Our ability to test for coronavirus antibodies is growing, but what we can do with that information is still limited. A health care worker taking a blood sample for an antibody test in Bolinas, Calif.Credit...John G Mabanglo/EPA, via Shutterstock By Tim Herrera April 29, 2020, 5:00 a.m. ET As states across the country weigh options for reopening after weeks of stay-at-home orders, antibody tests have emerged as a potential pathway on how — and when — to do it. But there are many caveats, as a recent study found that many of the antibody tests available currently provided inaccurate results. Antibody tests look for signs in the blood that a person has been exposed to the novel coronavirus. Knowing who has been exposed, along with how many people have been, may help to better understand the spread of the virus. This is especially important as studies continue to show that significant percentages of all coronavirus carriers — in some studies, up to half — show no symptoms at all. The Food and Drug Administration in the United States said this month that “the question of when we can return to work and resume our normal activities is one of the most critical issues facing our nation. Antibody tests — also known as serological tests — may have the potential to play a role in this complex calculation.” But should you get one? Can you get one? What do they actually tell us? Here’s everything you need to know. What is an antibody test, and how does it work? When your body is exposed to a foreign pathogen, like a virus that causes illness, your body’s response is to produce antibodies that live in the blood and tissue. These are proteins that bind to and destroy the virus, preventing it from making copies of itself and further spreading the infection. The antibody test, also called a serology test, looks at whether your body has developed those antibodies; the presence of them most likely means you were exposed to Covid-19, the illness caused by the virus. Some tests, like the one used by the Mount Sinai Health System in New York, can measure the level of antibodies in your system — your titer. But in general, most of the tests being made available across the country detect only whether the antibodies are present, said Dr. Jeffrey Jhang, medical director of clinical laboratories and transfusion services for the Mount Sinai Health System. A direct-to-consumer test announced on Tuesday from Quest Diagnostics — more on that below — measures only presence or absence. Antibodies can take generally anywhere from about a week to 14 days to develop, Dr. Jhang said, and the levels of antibodies vary based on time since exposure and a person’s immune system. This means that a lack of antibodies does not necessarily mean you were not exposed to the virus. The test is similar to other blood tests you may have had before: A sample of blood is taken from the patient and is then analyzed to determine the presence of antibodies. Most tests will generally return results within a few days, but that may vary, as some tests can return results in a few hours. Latest Updates: Coronavirus Outbreak in the U.S. 100 days, one million confirmed infections, and a country transformed. New C.D.C. statistics reveal more about the true toll. A report on the U.S. economy is going to be bad, and the Fed is weighing further interventions. See more updates Updated 46m ago More live coverage: Global Markets New York If I have antibodies, I’m immune, right? Not necessarily. The antibody test does not test for immunity to Covid-19. There is no test yet that can tell if you are immune. It is simply too early to know if the presence of antibodies confers immunity, as this is a new virus, meaning we’ve never seen it before. But experts generally agree that, based on experiences with other viruses, including SARS, the presence of antibodies most likely does confer some level of protection, though we don’t know to what extent or for how long. “The difficult thing is we do not have clinical evidence yet of whether the presence of antibodies actually prevents the individual from getting the disease again,” Dr. Jhang said, adding, “I think most people believe that the presence of antibodies in most cases would confer some protection given our experience with other viruses.” “But we really have to wait to see some evidence of that before we can be confident in being able to say that these antibodies can be protective,” he said. If I get an antibody test, can it tell if I have the virus? An antibody test is not the same thing as a diagnostic test for Covid-19, and it will not diagnose whether you currently have it. Remember that antibodies take time to develop, so a lack of antibodies may just mean your body hasn’t had enough time to develop them postinfection. Do I still need to practice social distancing if I have antibodies? Yes. If you test positive for antibodies, it is important that you continue to practice social distancing and proper general hygiene, as we still don’t know if antibodies confer immunity. Wear a mask, wash your hands regularly, socially distance yourself and clean your home often. Why does this matter? As we just learned, knowing your antibody level will help you determine whether you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus. This does not mean you’re immune, and you should still practice all of the safety precautions you have been. But it does mean you may be eligible to donate convalescent plasma, which can potentially help patients still suffering from Covid-19 by allowing them to “borrow” your antibodies to accelerate their recovery time. Widespread antibody testing may also give us a clearer picture of the scope of the disease. Results from a random testing of 3,000 people in New York City recently suggested that as many as one in five residents — or about 2.7 million people — might have encountered the disease without realizing it. When describing the results, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said that because the rate of infection might be far higher than initially thought, the death rate of the virus mighty be far lower than we thought. Once the medical community determines whether antibodies confer immunity — which experts say will take at least six months or so to determine — we’ll have a better sense of who may be less at risk emerging from lockdown. “Once we understand that the antibodies are protective, then the testing means something," Dr. Jhang said, as it may help “figure out who can go back to work and be protected and not spread the disease, or when kids can go back to school, teachers going in to teach.” Are the tests accurate? A study of 14 available antibody tests published last week found that only three delivered consistently reliable results. The study, which has yet to be peer-reviewed, found that only one test never returned a false positive, which is when the test incorrectly confirms the presence of coronavirus antibodies in people who didn’t have them. The other two tests with consistently reliable results returned false positives about 1 percent of the time. Further, these three tests confirmed the presence of antibodies in infected people only 90 percent of the time. Part of the reason for the inaccuracies, Dr. Jhang said, may be what’s called cross-reactivity: This is when a test misidentifies antibodies for a different, but similar, coronavirus. Florian Krammer of the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai in New York told The New York Times that false positives weren’t necessarily an issue when determining how widespread the disease is, as a given test’s false-positive rate can be accounted for in estimates. They do, however, matter greatly on an individual level. “You don’t want anybody back to work who has a false positive — that’s the last thing you want to do,” Dr. Krammer said. And the World Health Organization, citing ideas for an “immunity passport” or “risk-free certificate” from some countries, last week advised against relying on the tests for policy decisions. Should I get a test? If you think you currently have Covid-19, or have experienced in the last few days symptoms like coughing, fever, loss of taste or smell, or difficulty breathing, you should not get a test. Again, the antibody test is not the same as a diagnostic test for Covid-19. The test is generally intended for people who either have had a positive test for Covid-19 and have recovered; or who think they were exposed to Covid-19 and no longer have symptoms. Quest Diagnostics, which on Tuesday announced it is selling a direct-to-consumer antibody test — meaning you don’t need to first see a physician to take it — offered these guidelines for people interested in an antibody test: Have had a positive test for Covid-19 and it has been at least seven days and you want to know if you have detectable levels of immunoglobulin G, or IgG, antibodies. Have not experienced a fever or felt feverish in the last three days. Have not experienced new or worsening symptoms of Covid-19 in the past 10 days: loss of smell or taste, shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, feeling weak or lethargic, lightheadedness or dizziness, vomiting or diarrhea, slurred speech and/or seizures. Where can I get a test? While getting a test to diagnose Covid-19 is still somewhat difficult, antibody testing seems to be rolling out a little more smoothly. Many organizations nationwide are beginning to offer the test, perhaps most notably Quest, which is offering the test without a physician’s referral at the 2,200 patient service centers it operates around the country, the company said. LabCorp, a competitor of Quest, announced on Monday that, with a physician’s referral, patients could get an antibody test at any of its more than 2,000 patient service centers, as well as its 100 locations in Walgreens. In New York City, the walk-in clinic CityMD said in an email to patients that, as of Tuesday, it would also offer antibody testing that would “indicate with high accuracy if you had the virus in the past whether or not you experienced symptoms.” CityMD advises that people “wait two to four weeks after the end of symptoms to get the antibody test.” For more information about getting tested through CityMD, click here. Last, you can just ask your doctor about antibody testing, as doctors can refer patients to many locations running the test nationwide. Most insurance providers should cover the test, but check with yours to be sure. The Coronavirus Outbreak Frequently Asked Questions and Advice Updated April 11, 2020 When will this end? This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days. How can I help? The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.) What should I do if I feel sick? If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. Should I wear a mask? The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. How do I get tested? If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. How does coronavirus spread? It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face. Is there a vaccine yet? No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away. What makes this outbreak so different? Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard. What if somebody in my family gets sick? If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently. Should I stock up on groceries? Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home. Can I go to the park? Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea. Should I pull my money from the markets? That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years. What should I do with my 401(k)? Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions