https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/29/opinion/coronavirus-baby-boomers.html
Opinion | Baby Boomers Were Blasé About the Coronavirus? Why Did We Believe That? - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Today’s Paper Opinion|Baby Boomers Were Blasé About the Coronavirus? Why Did We Believe That? https://nyti.ms/3cZ5BAB AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Opinion Baby Boomers Were Blasé About the Coronavirus? Why Did We Believe That? How an online trope can become mainstream news. By Alex Stone Mr. Stone is the author of “Fooling Houdini: Magicians, Mentalists, Math Geeks and the Hidden Powers of the Mind.” April 29, 2020, 7:21 a.m. ET Credit...Linda Huang By now you may have heard that baby boomers were slow to take seriously the spread of the coronavirus. On social media, exasperated millennials and members of Generation X have scolded their parents for not staying indoors during the outbreak. “In an unsettling reversal of my teenage years, I am now yelling at my parents for going out,” the journalist Brigid Delaney tweeted on March 15, earning more than 34,000 retweets and thousands of sympathetic replies. In publications such as The New Yorker and Vice, the idea that boomers were not wary enough of the coronavirus has provided fodder for personal essays and trend pieces. Columnists have offered advice on how to talk to your parents about the coronavirus, and opinion writers have publicly shamed older people for failing to heed the health warnings. It’s a catchy story. It’s also false. A national poll conducted in mid-March by the data intelligence company Morning Consult, which has been tracking public reactions to the coronavirus outbreak since January, found that 87 percent of baby boomers (those born between 1946 and 1964) were practicing social-distancing measures, compared with 83 percent of Gen Xers (1965 and 1980), 76 percent of millennials (1981 and 1996) and 73 percent of the Gen Z crowd (1997 and 2001). Numerous follow-up surveys confirmed this pattern, with boomers being the age group most willing to self-isolate. Boomers also lead other generations in measures of awareness and concern. In a poll taken between March 31 and April 1, 78 percent of boomers said they were “very concerned” about the outbreak, a higher proportion than in any other generation. On average, boomers are more aware of how the disease might endanger the economy, the job market and American businesses, according to several polls. They’re also more knowledgeable about the effectiveness of hand washing and hand sanitizer. So how did the idea of the noncompliant boomer come about? The evolution of this myth from online anecdote to mainstream news is a cautionary tale of how misinformation can proliferate today, even in the absence of intent to deceive. There is no reason to think that this particular distortion sprang from a deliberate attempt to slander our elders. More likely, it arose from a combination of selection bias — boomers are less vocal on social media, so we don’t get to hear them complain about having to nag their children to stay indoors — and our obsession with interpreting social trends through generational stereotypes. Once the conceit of the brazen boomer was floated online, it was all too easy for media outlets to shoehorn that narrative into pre-existing analytical templates. A piece in Vogue attributed the stubborn self-assuredness of the baby-boom generation to a false sense of invincibility that comes with being in power for so long. An ABC News article suggested that boomers, having experienced more of life’s ups and downs, were taking the outbreak in stride, while socially conscious millennials were responding gravely to the warnings. Stereotypes have also been deployed to explain why Gen Xers are treating the coronavirus crisis with the gravity it deserves. After all, isn’t this the “latchkey generation” that learned to be cautious from Nancy Reagan’s “Just Say No” campaign, the “stranger danger” kidnapping panic and the AIDS epidemic? A CNBC article offered “the psychological reasons Gen X may be taking Covid-19 more seriously than boomers and millennials.” An NBC News article suggested: “Gen X was made for this. Boomers and Gen Z, not so much.” This sort of generational profiling is itself a form of misinformation. Aside from the fact that generational boundaries are imprecise, claims about systematic differences between generations are rarely of any empirical worth. “There’s this idea that generations exist as unique groups of people who are different from others because they experienced particular things at a particular point in time, but there’s no evidence for that,” David Costanza, a professor of organizational psychology at George Washington University, told me. “Generational stereotypes are no more accurate than saying ‘women can’t be good leaders because they are not aggressive.’” According to Professor Costanza, many of the traits and behaviors that we think of as generational are just a matter of age or career stage. The data on social distancing are a case in point. If boomers are being more cautious about the coronavirus than other generations, that is probably because they’re older, not because they’re boomers. And if young people aren’t being cautious enough, it’s probably not because they’re Gen Zers or millennials, but rather because they’re young. Cody Cox, a professor of industrial and organizational psychology at St. Mary’s University who studies generational issues in the workplace, concurs: “Overall, the research shows that generational differences aren’t as pronounced as they’re perceived to be.” For instance, despite their reputation for job-hopping, millennial workers turn out to be no less loyal to their employers than Gen Xers are, according to the Pew Research Center. “There’s a lot more variation within generations than between them,” Professor Cox said. The good news is that the escalating severity of the pandemic may be leveling out any initial age-specific differences in reactions to the disease. Recent polling by the Kaiser Family Foundation found that Americans of all ages were equally likely to practice physical distancing. “The message seems to have gotten out there,” Liz Hamel, the director of public opinion and survey research at the Kaiser Family Foundation, told me. “People are being careful regardless of age.” Alex Stone is the author of “Fooling Houdini: Magicians, Mentalists, Math Geeks and the Hidden Powers of the Mind.” The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions