https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/29/style/let-go-of-that-grudge.html
Let’s Bury the Hatchet! - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Style Today’s Paper Style|Let’s Bury the Hatchet! https://nyti.ms/2SlxY4a The Coronavirus Outbreak debugid:204 • Latest Updates Maps and Tracker New Symptom List • Markets Life at Home Newsletter AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Let’s Bury the Hatchet! Some people are using time in isolation to resolve deeply held grudges. Credit...Jonell Joshua By Abby Ellin April 29, 2020, 5:00 a.m. ET It was long overdue, the apology phone call. The last time the Frolkis sisters, Talia and Liza, had exchanged any words was July 2019. And that conversation had ended on, well, less than good terms. Not that Talia, 32, the younger sibling, a biomedical scientist in Madison, Wis., can say exactly what the tiff was about. “Who can remember the specifics?” she said. “There’s always some dramatic thing happening with family. Something was going on in her life and I was as supportive as I could be, and I was exhausted and hoping for some gratitude. When it didn’t come, I got a little snippy and it started a huge fight.” Nine months swept by with neither one making a move toward reconciliation — the longest the two women had gone without speaking. And then the coronavirus hit, and the tectonic plates shifted in Liza Frolkis’s psyche. “I missed her,” said Liza, 37, who lives in Milwaukee. “The weirdness of this time let me put aside the pain I was feeling. It gave me some perspective.” So she picked up the phone, old-school style, called her sister and said: “This world is crazy. It’s ridiculous that I haven’t apologized to you.” And then, said Talia, “I apologized back to her.” With more than three million cases of Covid-19 worldwide and over 200,000 deaths, with huge numbers of people coming face to face with their own mortality or the mortality of someone they know, some individuals are excavating their pasts and reaching out to those they once knew and fell out with. Sometimes it’s just to say hi, other times they’re hoping for détente, and other times they want to mend a fence, or at least patch it with duct tape. “Covid has made us re-evaluate our priorities, and once hard liners are no longer important,” said Pam Gillespie Blanton, 59, of Austin, Texas, who recently spoke with her nephew after a six-year estrangement. “Going back to simpler, basic things. Talking, cooking, learning how to communicate.” Latest Updates: Coronavirus Outbreak in the U.S. 100 days, one million confirmed infections, and a country transformed. New C.D.C. statistics reveal more about the true toll. A report on the U.S. economy is going to be bad, and the Fed is weighing further interventions. See more updates Updated 38m ago More live coverage: Global Markets New York Sometimes they’re clearing their own conscience, like Ginny Roberts, 63, who lives in the Rockaway Beach neighborhood of Queens and who had been harboring serious resentment toward the woman who did the flowers for her wedding 17 years ago. The roses and dahlias cost Ms. Roberts $3,000, she said, and looked as if they’d been churned in a NutriBullet. The florist, who knew the family socially, had been leaving voice mail messages over the years, but Ms. Roberts avoided them. Finally, she decided the time was right to make amends. “I don’t want to go to my grave being pissed about flowers, especially when they were for a marriage that isn’t even intact anymore,” Ms. Roberts said. “I’m not sure if she knew I was angry all these years, but I needed to fix it. I feel like I buried the hatchet.” (At least the one she imagined.) Others feel emboldened to say things they never could before. Abigail P., 45, who works in insurance in Auburn Hills, Mich. — and who asked that her last name not be used because it’s awkward to discuss terrible ex-boyfriends in a newspaper — said she recently had a “vivid” dream about an ex from 20 years ago. The relationship, which lasted about two years, ended “pretty horribly,” leaving her with some major scars. During an inventory of her romantic past over the last few weeks, though, she realized “that I have fond memories of our time together and that I had forgiven him,” she said. Abigail reached out to tell him that she was happy that he seemed so happy (thank you, LinkedIn). She said, “Maybe that was more for me than him, but I’m glad I did it.” She also got a surprise of her own. He wrote back. “He said some kind things about me,” she said. “Considering how things ended, I’d always assumed he didn’t think that highly of me.” Jorge Fagundo, a 41-year-old resident of Cabo Rojo, Puerto Rico, worried about that too when he contacted Carmen Lis Arcelay after nine years of silence. About a decade ago, Mr. Fagundo had been severely depressed and was having a hard time keeping a job. So Ms. Arcelay, then his close friend, invited him to stay with her and her husband on the island of St. Thomas for a few weeks. The few weeks turned into three months, and Ms. Arcelay and her husband were exasperated. “I felt that he wasn’t really contributing to the house,” said Ms. Arcelay, 44, who works at a brewery in Ashburn, Va. “We were driving him everywhere — it became a hassle.” She asked him to leave, but said he could temporarily move into the home she owned in Puerto Rico. There, he began growing marijuana on the roof. The Arcelays were livid and the friendship was ruined. “My husband works for the government,” she said. “He could have gotten into a lot of trouble.” About a week and a half ago, Ms. Arcelay received an email from Mr. Fagundo. He had been working up the nerve to contact them, he said, and he understood he betrayed their trust and wanted them to know he was sorry. He left a phone number, and Ms. Arcelay called. They spoke for two hours. “Everybody makes mistakes,” she said. “We become different people in time. I really appreciated that he understood that what he did was wrong.” Mr. Fagundo acknowledged in an email that the pandemic influenced his decision to contact his friends, along with a heart attack he suffered about eight months ago that left him in the hospital for 55 days, and in a coma for 22 of them. “They say that a near-death experience can change who you are,” he wrote. “I don’t know about that, but from my experience what it does is give you time to think and not only think but analyze and question almost everything. I have always been a loner and never thought I needed people at my side until now, and the urge to contact Carmen and Joel was even more significant at this moment.” This doesn’t surprise those who are familiar with the social psychology of health crises. The end of life — or what could be the end of life, even if not yours — “is when you want to put things to rest and express gratitude to people,” said Margaret Moore, the founder of Wellcoaches, a company that trains professional health care coaches. “We want to clean things up,” Ms. Moore said. “I think it’s a very good thing if the virus is prompting people to repair old relationships. That’s a sign of deepening the meaning of this.” Abigail P. also felt a powerful urge to seek repair. “In this case, my choice of closure was allowing myself to forgive him. And he deserved that, even if I never had the chance to tell him directly,” she said, adding that she doesn’t want to reconcile with her ex. “My intent was not to push my way back into his life,” she said. “It was healing enough just to let him know that I after all these years, I can smile in remembering the good times we shared.” The Coronavirus Outbreak Frequently Asked Questions and Advice Updated April 11, 2020 When will this end? This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days. How can I help? The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.) What should I do if I feel sick? If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. Should I wear a mask? The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. How do I get tested? If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. How does coronavirus spread? It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face. Is there a vaccine yet? No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away. What makes this outbreak so different? Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard. What if somebody in my family gets sick? If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently. Should I stock up on groceries? Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home. Can I go to the park? Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea. Should I pull my money from the markets? That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years. What should I do with my 401(k)? Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions