https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/28/world/asia/coronavirus-china-red-cross.html
Coronavirus Diplomacy: How China’s Red Cross Serves the Communist Party - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Asia Pacific Today’s Paper Asia Pacific|Coronavirus Diplomacy: How China’s Red Cross Serves the Communist Party https://nyti.ms/359RRAa The Coronavirus Outbreak debugid:204 • Latest Updates Maps and Tracker New Symptom List • Markets Life at Home Newsletter AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Coronavirus Diplomacy: How China’s Red Cross Serves the Communist Party The Red Cross in China seems like any other humanitarian group. But there is one crucial difference: it is funded and directed by the Chinese Communist Party. Medical workers waving goodbye last month to a recovered coronavirus patient at the Red Cross Hospital in Wuhan.Credit...Agence France-Presse — Getty Images By Javier C. Hernández and Sui-Lee Wee April 28, 2020 阅读简体中文版閱讀繁體中文版 Donations flooded in to fight the virus devastating the city of Wuhan, and the ruling Communist Party directed them to a group it could trust: the Chinese Red Cross. Bearing the familiar red-and-white logo, it looks just like any Red Cross group that rushes to disasters, deploys medics and raises funds across the world with political neutrality and independence. But there is a big difference: China’s Red Cross has been built, funded and directed by the Chinese Communist Party — effectively making it an arm of the state, and at times pitting the group’s goal of helping people against the party’s interests in maintaining control over society. In Wuhan, the charity’s officials were quickly paralyzed by bureaucracy, competing mandates and chaos. For days, tens of millions of dollars in funds went unused, while piles of protective gear sat in a sprawling warehouse as desperate health workers battled the virus without it. When officials did distribute aid, they sent tens of thousands of masks to private clinics that were not treating coronavirus patients. In one early shipment, they prioritized local officials over health care workers. In another delivery, the equipment was substandard. “I just wanted to cry,” said Chang Le, a doctor at Wuhan’s Hankou Hospital, in a video he posted online after the Red Cross delivered thousands of nonmedical grade masks. For the party, the Red Cross, with 90,000 branches in the country, is a reliable vehicle for tackling some of the country’s toughest public health challenges. The party reaps the benefits of philanthropy without loosening the social controls that would allow civil society to flourish. The Red Cross, one of the nation’s wealthiest charities, helps the party keep a grip on public donations for emergencies, allowing Beijing to determine how the money is spent and ensuring the state gets credit for good deeds. At the same time, the group’s dominance limits the growth of independent nonprofits that could challenge the party. But the layers of bureaucracy and political directives imposed by the state can slow the group’s response in a crisis. Smaller branches require the approval of the higher-level chapters overseeing them. Party members inside the organization keep employees in check. In Wuhan, the Red Cross was hamstrung by local city officials who were slow to decide how supplies were to be distributed. The group has also struggled to shake off its scandal-ridden past, which has eroded public trust. “During this epidemic, the shortcomings of the Red Cross were displayed to an even greater extreme,” said Jia Xijin, deputy dean of Tsinghua University’s Institute for Philanthropy. “The Red Cross cannot make decisions.” The Red Cross Society of China did not respond to multiple requests for comment. The International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, of which China’s Red Cross is a member, defended the group’s response in Wuhan. “Red Cross teams worked around the clock to provide essential humanitarian aid and human resources to reach the most vulnerable people,” the federation said in a statement. As public criticism mounted, China’s top leader, Xi Jinping, called on the Red Cross to be more open. “Charitable organizations and the Red Cross must operate efficiently, enhance transparency, and actively accept supervision, so that compassion and good will can be promptly fulfilled,” Mr. Xi said in February. Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak A study finds the coronavirus in tiny airborne droplets in Chinese hospitals. Faith in the central government fractures over France’s coronavirus response. Lockdowns halt illegal wildlife trade, for now. See more updates Updated 20m ago More live coverage: Markets U.S. New York For Mr. Xi, the credibility of the Red Cross is essential. Under his leadership, China’s Red Cross has been increasingly deployed abroad to help the country’s image. The organization is a major player in his ambitious Belt and Road Initiative, bringing a humanitarian touch to a state-led program to build economic and geopolitical ties across Asia, Africa and Europe. Now, the Red Cross is also an emissary for the country’s success in battling the coronavirus pandemic. The organization’s medical experts are handing out supplies and advice on the ground in Italy, Iran and Iraq. Its leaders are espousing China’s infection control strategy and urging countries to take more aggressive action. These efforts are helping China push back against international criticism that the government exacerbated the outbreak by initially concealing and playing down the virus. “The Chinese Red Cross is the perfect agency to play a leading role in China’s ‘coronavirus diplomacy,’ ” said Carl Thayer, emeritus professor of politics at the University of New South Wales. “It appears ostensibly independent from the Chinese Communist Party, when in fact the opposite is the case.” Money and Chaos As the coronavirus besieged Wuhan, tens of millions of dollars of donations flooded in, and much of it was funneled to the Red Cross, one of only five state-run charities allowed to accept donations to deal with the contagion. General Motors gave $700,000; LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton $2.3 million; Honda $1.4 million. When a natural disaster strikes, the Chinese government often gives the Red Cross a near monopoly on collecting donations. But the Red Cross shares the traits of many of the country’s government ministries and state-owned enterprises. It is often staffed by officials with little field expertise. Centralized authority can delay its decision-making on the ground. In Wuhan, such issues quickly came to a head. The charity had no logistics network to distribute supplies but was unwilling to let other groups help. The lockdown of Wuhan on Jan. 23 exacerbated the problem as the group struggled to find vehicles to pick up deliveries. The local government controlled how the Red Cross would distribute aid to hospitals, but its sluggish response quickly drew an outcry. On a chilly day in early February, several medical workers waited anxiously outside a sprawling exposition center in Wuhan to collect donated medical supplies. The center — the size of 17 soccer fields — was filled with boxes of masks, safety gowns and other protective equipment. Dr. Chang, the physician at Wuhan’s Hankou Hospital, said he went to the warehouse because a donor had sent the hospital 10,000 N95 respirators. But when he arrived, he said, the masks had been redirected elsewhere, and the Red Cross instead gave him substandard supplies. “I would like to ask the Wuhan Red Cross: The donations that were supposed to be assigned to us, how could you go ahead and distribute them yourself?” Dr. Chang wrote in a post on Weibo, a social media site. “Getting donations from private citizens is the fastest way because it would not be constrained by the system,” he said later in an interview. Frustrated activists combed through data posted by the Hubei Red Cross and found that it had donated 36,000 masks to two private hospitals that were not treating coronavirus patients. A video also circulated online showing a man at a Red Cross warehouse in Wuhan loading 3M masks into a car marked for government officials. Public anger swelled after the Red Cross said on Jan. 30 that it had spent only $7.6 million out of more than $56 million it had collected in donations. The Red Cross was overwhelmed. Calls had been coming in every three minutes, state media reports said. Volunteers were divided into shifts around the clock to answer phones. One volunteer said he was shocked when he was told to record donations using a pen and paper, instead of computers. Two volunteers said they knew of others who were kicked out of mobile chat groups run by the Red Cross after they made suggestions for improving the process. In late January, the Hubei Red Cross apologized for mismanaging the donations. The charity said that donors could also deliver supplies directly to hospitals. The Hubei Red Cross also started releasing daily reports detailing how donations were used. It later punished three officials. By late April, China’s Red Cross had received more than $300 million in public donations of cash and supplies for the coronavirus response. Politics and Scandal The mismanagement of the crisis in Wuhan revived more than a decade of criticism of the Red Cross. The organization was widely attacked for redirecting more than $11 million from Chinese artists that was meant to build an art school and support reconstruction after a devastating 2008 earthquake in the province of Sichuan. The school was never built. The Red Cross apologized after a public outcry ensued, but insisted it was only at fault for poor communication, not misappropriation. The public’s frustrations with the Red Cross boiled over in 2011 when a woman who claimed to work for the organization posted photographs online of herself posing with sports cars and luxury handbags. Many speculated that Red Cross funds were paying for the expensive lifestyle of the woman, Guo Meimei. Ms. Guo later said that she did not have any ties to the organization. But the incident exposed a number of shadowy groups affiliated with the Red Cross that had been pursuing for-profit projects. The Red Cross later said it would disband such affiliated groups. Donations plunged by about 60 percent in the aftermath, and the Red Cross brought in a new party secretary to clean up the organization, so tarred by scandal it was often called the “Black Cross.” Within three years, that party secretary, Zhao Baige, resigned amid another scandal. The Red Cross in Beijing had leased out to private companies government-financed warehouses that were supposed to be used to store emergency relief supplies. Ms. Zhao called the move necessary to pay the wages of Red Cross staff, comparing the organization to an “honest girl who was forced into prostitution,” invoking a Chinese idiom. “The problem is quite big,” she told a state-run news site. China’s Red Cross was born in 1904, when local elites set it up to deliver supplies to thousands of Chinese civilians caught between Russian and Japanese forces in Manchuria. Chinese officials recognized the political role the Red Cross could play. When Mao Zedong’s Communist army prevailed over the nationalists in 1949, the Communist Party deployed the Red Cross to denounce “traitors” in rival Taiwan and “imperialist” Americans fighting in the Korean War. “It was a huge propaganda machine for China under Mao,” said Caroline Reeves, a researcher who has studied China’s Red Cross. In recent years, the party has opened branches across China. It has pushed government employees and workers at state-owned enterprises to serve as volunteers and offer donations. The government has promised to strengthen oversight of the group. New rules were imposed in 2017, requiring the Red Cross to publicize audited annual reports and that its local branches tell donors how their money is spent. In 2018, the head of the Red Cross, Liang Huiling, outlined a plan to be less bureaucratic and more transparent. But she also said that the reforms would “strengthen the leadership of the party” over the group. “It has an inbuilt system of party decision makers, so while it might gain a slightly clearer boundary from government, it is, if anything, increasingly strongly party-led,” said Holly Snape, an expert in Chinese politics at the University of Glasgow. Blurred Lines and Global Ambitions As the Chinese Communist Party looks to expand its influence overseas, so goes the Red Cross. In Pakistan, where China is building an 1,800-mile network of roads, railways and pipelines, the charity has offered ambulances and medical professionals. In Afghanistan, it has treated children with heart disease. In Sri Lanka, it has donated funds for flood victims. China is hardly unique in using aid to advance its political interests. But the party has turned to the Red Cross to promote some of its most ambitious foreign policy projects, including the Belt and Road Initiative, the $1 trillion infrastructure plan at the heart of Mr. Xi’s vision to reclaim China’s place as a world power. Three years ago, the Red Cross established the Silk Road Fraternity Fund, aiming to provide humanitarian services to countries from East Asia to Europe that are central to Mr. Xi’s initiative. “President Xi’s proposal for a Health Silk Road, which strengthens and renews ancient links between cultures and people, with health at its core, is indeed visionary,” Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the head of the World Health Organization, said in 2017. Now, China is following a similar playbook in its coronavirus diplomacy. The charity’s image has become crucial to Beijing’s efforts to quell anger about its early missteps in dealing with the outbreak. The Red Cross has sent doctors, masks and traditional Chinese medicine to Iraq. It flew more than $600,000 in testing kits and surgical hoods to Pakistan. As they travel the world, Red Cross employees are splashed across Chinese media outlets in a propaganda drive that helps to fuel national pride and blunt public anger at a time of economic distress. In Baghdad, they are shown discussing the construction of a coronavirus testing center. In Pakistan, they are depicted helping children put masks on. In Italy, they are portrayed visiting hospitals. On March 15, the Red Cross sent experts and equipment to Italy’s Lombardy region. The aid, which was distributed through the Italian Red Cross, was received with gratitude. “When I got the news last night at 10 that 40 respirators had been donated by the Italian Red Cross, I nearly began to cry,” said Giulio Gallera, the region’s top health official, according to news reports. “Starting today, we are giving hope to 40 Lombardy residents.” Reporting was contributed by Cao Li in Hong Kong, Elisabetta Povoledo in Rome, Hana de Goeij in Prague and Alissa J. Rubin in Baghdad. Albee Zhang, Amber Wang and Liu Yi contributed research. The Coronavirus Outbreak Frequently Asked Questions and Advice Updated April 11, 2020 When will this end? This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days. How can I help? The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.) What should I do if I feel sick? If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. Should I wear a mask? The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. How do I get tested? If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. How does coronavirus spread? It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face. Is there a vaccine yet? No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away. What makes this outbreak so different? Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard. What if somebody in my family gets sick? If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently. Should I stock up on groceries? Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home. Can I go to the park? Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea. Should I pull my money from the markets? That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years. What should I do with my 401(k)? Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions