https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/28/business/jetblue-face-masks-coronavirus.html
JetBlue Is the First Major U.S. Airline to Require Masks for Passengers - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Business Today’s Paper Business|JetBlue Is the First Major U.S. Airline to Require Masks for Passengers https://nyti.ms/35dXOMx The Coronavirus Outbreak debugid:204 • Latest Updates Maps and Tracker New Symptom List • Markets Life at Home Newsletter AdvertisementContinue reading the main story JetBlue Is the First Major U.S. Airline to Require Masks for Passengers The airline will require all passengers to wear a face covering from the beginning to the end of their trip. The policy takes effect Monday. JetBlue will require passengers to cover their mouths and noses at check-in, boarding and for the duration of their flight.Credit...Kathy Willens/Associated Press By Johnny Diaz April 28, 2020 JetBlue will require passengers to wear face coverings starting next week, becoming the first major American airline to compel its customers to cover their noses and mouths since the start of the coronavirus outbreak. The policy, which takes effect Monday, covers the duration of a passenger’s flight, from check-in through boarding and deplaning, the airline said. “Wearing a face covering isn’t about protecting yourself, it’s about protecting those around you,” Joanna Geraghty, JetBlue’s president and chief operating officer, said in a statement. “This is the new flying etiquette. Onboard, cabin air is well circulated and cleaned through filters every few minutes, but this is a shared space where we have to be considerate of others.” JetBlue already had been requiring its crew members to wear face coverings while on duty. The airline said it modeled its new policy on a recommendation from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention that people cover their noses and mouths in public to help slow the spread of the coronavirus. JetBlue referred to the C.D.C.’s definition of a face covering as a cloth that should fit snugly against the side of a person’s face, is secured with ties or ear loops, and includes “multiple layers of fabric for unrestricted breathing.” The C.D.C. recommends that surgical masks and N95 respirators be reserved for health care workers and other medical professionals. Latest Updates: Economy A report on the U.S. economy is going to be bad, and there is worse to come. Wall Street is set to open higher as global stocks inch up. At Boeing, the news is bad: 26 percent and job cuts are coming. See more updates Updated 2h ago More live coverage: Global U.S. New York The company said it would remind passengers of the new policy before their flight by email and through announcements and signage at airports. Small children who are not able to wear a face covering are exempt from the requirement, the airline said. Sara Nelson, the president of the Association of Flight Attendants, applauded JetBlue’s new policy. “Good job, JetBlue, for being the first U.S. airline to take this responsible step, which the C.D.C. advises will help slow the spread of the virus,” she said in a statement. Her union has been pushing for the Department of Transportation, in coordination with the Department of Health and Human Services, to require masks for airline crews and passengers, and it has been urging people to fly as little as possible during the pandemic. “Most U.S. airlines are now requiring flight attendants to wear a mask while working,” she said, “but we need passengers to wear masks in order to best protect everyone onboard, including crew.” “In the meantime,” she added, “we encourage all passengers to voluntarily wear a face covering while traveling.” Many passengers have been wearing masks, but some travelers have been sharing images on social media suggesting that the precaution was not being universally followed. United Airlines announced last week that it was requiring masks for its flight attendants and that it would provide masks for customers starting in early May. And Delta announced on Monday that it was requiring its employees to wear masks or face coverings when they are “unable to maintain at least six feet” of distance from another employee or customer. “We will continue to make masks and face coverings available to employees, and you are also free to use your own face covering,” Delta said in a memo to employees on Monday. “We are strongly encouraging customers to wear masks, too, and we plan to make them available,” a Delta spokesman, Morgan Durrant, said in an email. American Airlines also announced on Monday that flight attendants on its domestic and international flights would be required to wear masks starting Friday. Although American Airlines does not require passengers to wear masks, the company plans to provide them with masks starting in May. The company also tells passengers that they may be required by local law “to wear one in the airport where your trip begins, where it ends or where you connect.” Since late March, JetBlue has limited the number of seats for sale on most flights to allow for more space between passengers who are not traveling together, the company said. Last month, American Airlines announced that it would not be assigning 50 percent of main-cabin middle seats or seats near flight attendant jump seats. United and Delta are also blocking sales of middle seats. “These mitigation measures are the latest steps in our broader efforts to help ensure a safe environment for our customers and our employees, in the air and at the airport,” said Nicole Carriere, a United spokeswoman. Niraj Chokshi contributed reporting. The Coronavirus Outbreak Frequently Asked Questions and Advice Updated April 11, 2020 When will this end? This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days. How can I help? The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.) What should I do if I feel sick? If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. Should I wear a mask? The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. How do I get tested? If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. How does coronavirus spread? It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face. Is there a vaccine yet? No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away. What makes this outbreak so different? Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard. What if somebody in my family gets sick? If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently. Should I stock up on groceries? Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home. Can I go to the park? Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea. Should I pull my money from the markets? That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years. What should I do with my 401(k)? Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions