https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/27/us/coronavirus-social-distancing-lockdown.html
‘Quarantine Fatigue’ Has More People Going Outside - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index U.S. Today’s Paper U.S.|‘Quarantine Fatigue’ Has More People Going Outside https://nyti.ms/3eY5WW4 The Coronavirus Outbreak debugid:204 • Latest Updates Maps and Tracker New Symptom List Markets Life at Home Newsletter AdvertisementContinue reading the main story ‘Quarantine Fatigue’ Has More People Going Outside New research shows that people are venturing out more frequently, and traveling farther from home. Fort Greene Park in Brooklyn on Saturday.Credit...Andrew Seng for The New York Times By Mihir Zaveri April 27, 2020 For more than a month, governors in a vast majority of states have urged people to stay indoors and away from one another, critical measures needed to slow the spread of the coronavirus. But as the lockdowns drag on, the weather gets warmer and some states move to reopen, researchers at the University of Maryland have found that more people across the country are going outside, that they are doing so more frequently and that they are traveling longer distances. The changes in behavior, tracked using cellphone location data, have been measured in the past two weeks and can be seen in all but three states. Starting in mid-March, when most stay-at-home orders were announced, fewer people went out and people also made less frequent trips, according to the research. For weeks, the numbers held steady. Then, starting on April 14, the data showed people increasingly going out, a trend that continued through Friday, said Lei Zhang, director of the Maryland Transportation Institute at the University of Maryland, College Park, which is leading the research. In Texas, for example, 25 percent of people stayed home on April 24, the most recent day for which data was available, compared with 29 percent on April 10, two weeks earlier. In Ohio, people took 3.2 trips, on average, on April 24, up from an average of 2.8 trips two weeks before. In Louisiana, people traveled an average of 31.1 miles, up from 24.7. The research suggests that people are growing increasingly restless, Dr. Zhang said. It also suggests people are increasing the chances that they will interact with others and possibly spread the virus. Dr. Zhang called the phenomenon “quarantine fatigue.” “It just seems that people are getting a little tired collectively of staying at home after we passed that one-month mark,” he said. The phenomenon appeared to be on display this past weekend, as throngs of people packed beaches in Southern California on a hot Saturday despite pleas from public officials to consider staying indoors. In New York on Saturday, warmer, sunnier weather drew crowds to the city’s parks. Dr. Zhang said it was theoretically possible that people were going outside more while still maintaining the recommended six feet of distance from others and taking other precautions, such as wearing masks and gloves. But he cited news reports about people congregating at beaches and in parks as evidence that social distancing was not always happening. It becomes harder to follow social-distancing guidelines, he said, “when people go out more and go to more places and stay there longer.” Latest Updates: Coronavirus Outbreak in the U.S. 100 days, one million confirmed infections, and a country transformed. New C.D.C. statistics reveal more about the true toll. A report on the U.S. economy is going to be bad, and the Fed is weighing further interventions. See more updates Updated 46m ago More live coverage: Global Markets New York The findings may be particularly troubling in the United States, the country hardest hit by the coronavirus pandemic. The number of known cases in the country has surpassed 977,200, with more than 50,100 deaths. Experts have cautioned that there will be no imminent return to normalcy and that a return to communal life will most likely come in stages. Without adherence to social distancing, the virus could surge anew, experts have warned. A few states have moved in recent days to gradually reopen parts of their economies, but most Americans are still being urged to stay home. The research also seems to run counter to polls, which suggest that a majority of Americans support the restrictions that governors and local officials have imposed. “I think people feel the obligation to do it even though they are not doing it as much as they are reporting they are,” Dr. Zhang said. There also appear to be signs of small changes in attitude among some Americans toward social-distancing measures, according to some polls. According to a Gallup poll conducted the week of April 13, 62 percent of adults surveyed said it was very likely that they would stay home for a month if public health officials recommended doing so based on an outbreak in their community. That number was down from a high of 67 percent in the week of March 30. Similarly, a Gallup poll conducted the week of April 20 found that 59 percent of respondents said they had practiced social distancing in the previous 24 hours. That was down from 65 percent in the week of April 6. The Maryland Transportation Institute’s research is based on anonymized cellphone location data that is updated daily. A trip is counted if the end point is more than a mile from the person’s home and he or she stays there for more than 10 minutes, Dr. Zhang said. That way, the research does not pick up people who are just checking the mail, going for a jog or walking the dog. Researchers created a measure that they call a “social-distancing index” by combining a number of other metrics using the cellphone data: the percentage of people in a state or county who are staying home, the number of trips per person per day, the distance of those trips and the number of trips taken beyond county or state borders. “Overall, we try to measure the opportunity that people can interact with each other and give more chances for viruses to be passed on from one to another,” Dr. Zhang said. He said researchers recorded recent increases in the number, frequency or distance of people’s trips outside the home in every state except Massachusetts, Rhode Island and Wyoming. Louisiana, Ohio, Texas and Vermont were among the states where the largest increases were measured, he said. The research, Dr. Zhang said, suggests that state and local governments need to improve their messaging about their stay-at-home orders. “The moment people start seeing the curves flattening, the number of cases start dropping or holding steady,” he said, “that gives people a false sense of safety.” The Coronavirus Outbreak Frequently Asked Questions and Advice Updated April 11, 2020 When will this end? This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days. How can I help? The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.) What should I do if I feel sick? If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. Should I wear a mask? The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. How do I get tested? If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. How does coronavirus spread? It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face. Is there a vaccine yet? No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away. What makes this outbreak so different? Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard. What if somebody in my family gets sick? If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently. Should I stock up on groceries? Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home. Can I go to the park? Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea. Should I pull my money from the markets? That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years. What should I do with my 401(k)? Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions