https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/28/world/middleeast/yemen-separatists-saudi-arabia.html
War Within War: As Saudi Prince Edges Away from Yemen, His Allies Feud - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Middle East Today’s Paper Middle East|War Within War: As Saudi Prince Edges Away from Yemen, His Allies Feud https://nyti.ms/3aGfPEh The Coronavirus Outbreak debugid:204 • Latest Updates Maps and Tracker New Symptom List • Markets Life at Home Newsletter AdvertisementContinue reading the main story War Within War: As Saudi Prince Edges Away from Yemen, His Allies Feud A declaration of self-rule by Yemeni separatists has complicated Saudi efforts to withdraw from the war. Members of the Southern Transitional Council in Aden after the group issued a declaration of self-rule. Credit...Mohamed Abdelhakim/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images By Declan Walsh April 28, 2020 CAIRO — After five years of war, the Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, appeared to be inching away from his ruinous campaign in Yemen in recent weeks, seizing on the coronavirus pandemic to declare a unilateral cease-fire that, although ineffective, at least signaled that the prince finally agreed with critics who insisted the fight was unwinnable. His fractious Yemeni allies, however, have other ideas. A declaration of self-rule over the weekend by Yemen’s leading separatist group, which seized control of the southern port city of Aden and its Central Bank, threatens fresh chaos in the war-torn country. It comes as the war’s main sponsors, the Saudis and the United Arab Emirates, distracted by their own woes, turn away from the fight. That has left their Yemeni allies, previously united against the Iranian-supported Houthis who control the country’s north, to battle for supremacy. It could hardly come at a worse time. International funding for humanitarian aid to the famine-threatened country has plunged this year and regional players are distracted by the pandemic. Aid workers are scrambling to bolster Yemen’s shattered health system against a potentially devastating outbreak of Covid-19. Although just one case has been declared in Yemen, involving a 60-year-old port worker, there is a “very real possibility” of many more undetected infections, the United Nations office in Yemen said in a statement Tuesday. It warned that a funding shortfall would hamper efforts to combat the virus. “This increases the likelihood of a surge of cases which may quickly overwhelm health capacities,” the statement said. The self-rule declaration by the separatist group, the Southern Transitional Council, raises the specter of renewed clashes inside the coalition assembled by Prince Mohammed in 2015 in an effort to oust the Houthi rebels from the Yemeni capital, Sana. The council, based in Aden, is at odds with its nominal ally, President Abdu Rabbu Mansour Hadi, who leads Yemen’s weak, internationally recognized government. Its forces are based in two provinces adjoining Aden. The factions have clashed sporadically for over two years. The feud descended into open warfare last August after the United Arab Emirates withdrew most of its forces from southern Yemen, apparently weary of the Saudi-led campaign against the Houthis, leaving behind a power vacuum. Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak Pandemic forces a rethinking of summer plans and immunization programs. Faith in the central government fractures over France’s coronavirus response. Across Europe, a struggle to save the summer vacation. See more updates Updated 13m ago More live coverage: Markets U.S. New York After clashes that killed 40 people, Saudi Arabia deployed troops to Aden and, in November, brokered a peace deal between the southern separatists and Mr. Hadi that was signed in Riyadh. That deal collapsed on Saturday, when separatist fighters surged through the streets of Aden, seizing control of government offices and waving the flag of South Yemen, a Communist country that existed from 1967 to 1990. On Monday the Saudi-led coalition pleaded with the separatists to reverse the self-rule declaration, which it called an “an escalatory action,” in a call that was backed by the United Arab Emirates, which has traditionally funded and armed the separatists. The United Nations envoy, Martin Griffiths, joined the calls for a de-escalation. “The latest turn of events is disappointing, especially as the city of Aden and other areas in the south have yet to recover from flooding and are facing the risk of Covid-19,” Mr. Griffiths said in a statement. But Nizar Haytham, a spokesman for the Southern Transitional Council, insisted the group would not back down. “The southerners have the right to govern themselves and manage their revenues,” he said by phone on Tuesday. Flash floods in Aden last week submerged homes in water and mud, and killed at least 14 people, prompting a wave of public fury over corruption and mismanagement that prompted the separatists to move against Mr. Hadi. But more prosaic factors also lie behind the upheaval. Since January, the Emirates has stopped paying salaries of about $400 to $530 a month to separatist fighters in Aden, a senior council official said. The Saudis refused to make up the shortfall, stirring anger in the ranks. Yet the Emiratis continued to pay salaries to Yemeni fighters in other parts of the south, like Hadramout and Shabwa, where their special forces units are deployed on missions to hunt Islamist militants, said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to avoid public criticism of Saudi Arabia. The war-within-a-war adds yet another dimension to the chaos of Yemen, where years of foreign meddling have inflamed longstanding Yemeni rivalries and power struggles. Analysts say that any violent clashes between the two sides are likely to erupt in Abyan governorate, which lies between their forces. At the same time, the leaders of those groups are based in neighboring countries. Aidarous al-Zubaidi, who heads the Southern Transitional Council, lives in Abu Dhabi, while President Hadi is in Saudi Arabia. The southern schism plays into the hands of the Iran-supported Houthis, whose forces have pushed aggressively into oil-rich Marib Province in recent weeks. Prince Mohammed tried to slow that advance by declaring a unilateral, two-week cease-fire on April 9. That was later extended for the duration of the holy month of Ramadan, which started last weekend. But fighting has continued, with the Saudi-led coalition and the Houthis accusing each other of breaches. Prince Mohammed’s appetite for the war in Yemen appears to have waned in the past year, amid global condemnation of Saudi military tactics that killed thousands of civilians in airstrikes. Plunging oil prices in recent weeks have significantly raised the financial strain of the war for the kingdom. A series of talks between Saudi and Houthi officials aimed at ending the war have made little progress, Mahdi al-Mashat, the president of the Houthi Supreme Political Council, told a Yemeni newspaper on Saturday. But it is unclear how much control the Saudis or Emiratis exert over their Yemeni proxies. When the Emiratis drew down their forces last year, said Peter Salisbury of the International Crisis Group, they signaled they were no longer willing “to keep a lid on things.” The latest flare-up, Mr. Salisbury said, “is about a Yemeni-Yemeni rivalry with regional overtones that are not very clear.” The Yemeni port worker who caught the coronavirus has since recovered. But health workers say they failed to track down “patient zero,” the person who brought the infection to Yemen, and they fear that even a mild surge in cases would quickly overwhelm the country’s dilapidated health system. “Now, more than ever, all political actors must cooperate in good faith, refrain from taking escalatory actions, and put the interests of Yemenis first,” said Mr. Griffiths, the United Nations envoy. So far, though, there is little evidence of such enlightened thinking among the conflict’s myriad protagonists. Saeed Al-Batati contributed reporting from Al Mukalla, Yemen. The Coronavirus Outbreak Frequently Asked Questions and Advice Updated April 11, 2020 When will this end? This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days. How can I help? The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.) What should I do if I feel sick? If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. Should I wear a mask? The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. How do I get tested? If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. How does coronavirus spread? It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face. Is there a vaccine yet? No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away. What makes this outbreak so different? Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard. What if somebody in my family gets sick? If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently. Should I stock up on groceries? Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home. Can I go to the park? Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea. Should I pull my money from the markets? That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years. What should I do with my 401(k)? Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions