https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/28/us/coronavirus-undocumented-immigrants-stimulus.html
Married to an Undocumented Immigrant? You May Not Get a Stimulus Check. - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index U.S. Today’s Paper U.S.|Married to an Undocumented Immigrant? You May Not Get a Stimulus Check. https://nyti.ms/3bHcfex The Coronavirus Outbreak debugid:204 • Latest Updates Maps and Tracker New Symptom List Markets Life at Home Newsletter AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Married to an Undocumented Immigrant? You May Not Get a Stimulus Check. Undocumented immigrants are ineligible for federal payments to help families during the coronavirus pandemic. So are their spouses, even if they are U.S. citizens. Jonny Arenas, 41, holds hands with his husband in Seattle. Mr. Arenas immigrated from Mexico and his husband is an American citizen.Credit...Ruth Fremson/The New York Times By Caitlin Dickerson April 28, 2020 They met in a Facebook community for Catholics and connected over their shared love of gospel music. At 56 and 38, they married and settled into a modest life in the Capitol Hill neighborhood of Seattle, where they could splurge on the occasional day trip across Puget Sound or fried fish at their favorite waterfront restaurant. But like many people in the U.S., Jonny Arenas and his husband have seen their lives turn upside down. Both lost their jobs when the coronavirus pandemic shuttered much of their city, and they were hoping that a bank deposit from the federal stimulus fund to help struggling families would cover their rent and bills. But the money never came, and suddenly it felt as if their relationship was being held against them. Though his husband is a United States citizen who was born and raised in Seattle, Mr. Arenas is an undocumented immigrant from Mexico. The relief package negotiated in Congress makes clear that neither one of them is eligible for help because of Mr. Arenas’s legal status. “If we pay the rent, we don’t have enough money to buy what we need, not even vegetables,” said Mr. Arenas. A provision in the legislation that created the stimulus fund, which received little attention while it was under debate, prohibits payments to people who file taxes jointly with someone who uses an Individual Taxpayer Identification Number, a common substitute for a Social Security number used mostly by immigrants without legal status. The result, immigrant advocates say, is that many American citizens who are married to undocumented immigrants will not receive financial support at a time when the country is facing a staggering unemployment crisis. Those families also must forgo the bonus payments that otherwise would be distributed based on the number of children living in their home. As a result, larger households in financial distress may lose out on thousands of federal dollars because of a single undocumented family member. An estimated 1.2 million American citizens are married to undocumented immigrants. Michael Zona, a spokesman for Senator Chuck Grassley, a Republican who as chairman of the Senate Finance Committee helped craft the bill, noted that American citizens who file separately from their undocumented spouses may still be eligible for the credit. But immigrant advocates say most mixed-status couples file jointly because doing so is an important part of proving the legitimacy of their marriage, which is necessary for the undocumented spouse to eventually gain legal status. Such is the case for Luz María Ortíz de Pulido, who had for years been saving extra money at the end of the month — often only $10 or $20 at a time — for a rainy day that has now arrived with the coronavirus. Latest Updates: Coronavirus Outbreak in the U.S. 100 days, one million confirmed infections, and a country transformed. New C.D.C. statistics reveal more about the true toll. A report on the U.S. economy is going to be bad, and the Fed is weighing further interventions. See more updates Updated 44m ago More live coverage: Global Markets New York Her husband, Valentine Pulido, an American citizen born in California, is now supporting the four children and one grandchild who live with them almost entirely on his own. Money has always been tight in their home in Del Valle, Texas, a suburb of Austin. Ms. Pulido, who is from Mexico, knows never to splurge on unnecessary indulgences like yogurt, or anything but the cheapest off-brand cereals. But since the pandemic eliminated most of her work as a house cleaner, the family’s financial situation has become more precarious. Were it not for the provision, Ms. Pulido’s family would have received about $2,700 to help cover their bills: $1,200 for her husband and a $500 bonus for each dependent child in their household under 16. Instead, they had to cancel the insurance on Ms. Pulido’s car and request an extension on their rent for next month. “We needed that money,” she said. “It’s seven people in my house and just me who doesn’t have papers, and we are all punished. It’s hard.” For many families, the exclusion is particularly painful because it applies only to those undocumented immigrants who pay federal income and Social Security taxes. Americans who are married to immigrants who are paid under the table but do not report their earnings to the federal government are not disqualified from receiving stimulus checks. At least two federal lawsuits seeking a nationwide injunction blocking the restrictions on stimulus payments were filed last week, in Illinois and New York. The cases argue that denying the funds to U.S. citizens because their spouses lack Social Security numbers violates the constitutional rights to free association, due process and equal protection inherent in the Constitution. An exception to the rule was made for couples where either spouse served in the military during the previous tax year. Advocacy groups have begun to introduce programs meant to catch immigrant families that are slipping through the financial safety net that is being hastily sewn by Congress. The billionaire George Soros pledged $37 million to help vulnerable New Yorkers who cannot access federal help, including undocumented immigrants and their spouses. And United We Dream, an immigrant advocacy group, created a fund that is national in scope. Within 10 minutes of making the application available online, the group received 1,300 requests for help from families in 30 different states, according to Bruna Sollod, its communications director. Ms. Sollod said they had to quickly take the application down because so far they have only raised enough money to provide 300 families with $400 in support each. Undocumented immigrants were also disqualified from funding allotted in a later stimulus package to cover coronavirus testing and treatment. Immigrant and health advocates argue that the decision by Congress could put all Americans at greater health risk. “For people to have to make decisions about whether or not to work in this environment without the cash assistance and potentially without testing and treatment as well is not only inhumane, but it actually hurts us in being able to address this crisis,” said Manar Waheed, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union. “Congress has to protect everyone in order for us to get a hold on this crisis.” For many families of mixed immigration status, being barred from stimulus funds is compounding the financial strain caused by sudden job losses because undocumented immigrants are also not eligible for unemployment insurance. Irvi Cruz lost both his jobs in Manhattan restaurants last month, leaving his wife, Rachel McCormick, a teacher in the New York public school system, to support the couple and their two daughters, Sara and Ana, 7 and 5, on her income alone. Mr. Cruz, who grew up in Oaxaca, Mexico, has been paying taxes for nearly 10 years with a taxpayer identification number he obtained around the time he married Ms. McCormick, who is from Pennsylvania. Neither received any stimulus funds. “What more do I have to do to deserve that money?” Ms. McCormick said. “And so why is the government making this decision that my family doesn’t need to survive? Or needs to find another way to survive?” While their rent payment looms closer, Mr. Arenas and his husband have stopped eating lunch, hoping that limiting themselves to two meals a day will stretch their financial reserves a little further. They have noticed that their neighbors — mostly American citizens or legal immigrants who work for the city’s many tech companies — seem to be staying inside as much as possible in order to stay safe from the virus. But Mr. Arenas has not had that luxury. Now that his work as a house cleaner has dried up, he sanitizes groceries at a local market for two hours a night to bring in extra money. The gap between his situation and his neighbors’ seems larger than ever. “We are human beings, we are not different,” Mr. Arenas said. “We work and file taxes every year, and we are vulnerable, too.” The Coronavirus Outbreak Frequently Asked Questions and Advice Updated April 11, 2020 When will this end? This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days. How can I help? The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.) What should I do if I feel sick? If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. Should I wear a mask? The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. How do I get tested? If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. How does coronavirus spread? It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face. Is there a vaccine yet? No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away. What makes this outbreak so different? Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard. What if somebody in my family gets sick? If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently. Should I stock up on groceries? Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home. Can I go to the park? Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea. Should I pull my money from the markets? That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years. What should I do with my 401(k)? Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions