https://www.nytimes.com/spotlight/coronavirus
Coronavirus (US) - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Coronavirus (US) Today’s Paper U.S. Coronavirus (US) The number of known coronavirus cases in the United States continues to grow rapidly. Follow here for live coverage, analysis and explanatory journalism. The number of known coronavirus cases in the United States continues to grow rapidly. Follow here for live coverage, analysis and explanatory journalism. AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Latest Search Search Clear this text input Pug in North Carolina Tests Positive for the Coronavirus, Researchers Say A team at Duke University detected the virus in the dog this month. By Christine Hauser and Jenny Gross Coronavirus Briefing: What Happened Today Whenever schools finally reopen in the United States, the classroom could be a very different place. By Patrick J. Lyons Trump Administration’s Message on Reopening Continues to Be Contradictory The president said the coronavirus wouldn’t come back while Dr. Anthony Fauci said it would be “a bad fall” and the attorney general threatened to sue states for enforcing restrictions. By Peter Baker Pence Tours Mayo Clinic and Flouts Its Rule That All Visitors Wear a Mask The vice president, who leads the White House’s coronavirus task force, said that masks were meant to prevent the spread of the virus and that he was tested regularly and does not have it. By Annie Karni Treasury Vows to Recoup Virus Relief Aid Claimed by Big Companies The Treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin, said the administration would audit any company that received more than $2 million. By Alan Rappeport Senate Republicans to Push Ahead on Judges Over Democratic Objections The Judiciary Committee is poised to consider the nomination of a McConnell protégé to an influential appeals court, while Democrats say the focus should be on the pandemic. By Carl Hulse TimesVideo Pence Tours Mayo Clinic Without a Mask Vice President Mike Pence did not wear a mask while visiting coronavirus patients at the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota, a violation of the facility’s policy. By The Associated Press In her words How the Spanish Flu Almost Upended Women's Suffrage Canceled rallies. A looming election. A stretched healthcare system with a predominantly female face. Women’s frustrations then resonate loud and clear today. By Alisha Haridasani Gupta DeVos Decides Against Special Education Waivers During the Pandemic Education Secretary Betsy DeVos has informed Congress that she will not seek to grant waivers from special education requirements under federal law. By Erica L. Green Married to an Undocumented Immigrant? You May Not Get a Stimulus Check. Undocumented immigrants are ineligible for federal payments to help families during the coronavirus pandemic. So are their spouses, even if they are U.S. citizens. By Caitlin Dickerson Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions