https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/29/us/coronavirus-bridge-colorado-springs.html
Bridge Was Their Passion. Then People Started to Die. - The New York Times
U.S.|Bridge Was Their Passion. Then People Started to Die. https://nyti.ms/2ySLc1g The Coronavirus Outbreak debugid:204 • Latest Updates Maps and Tracker New Symptom List • Markets Life at Home Newsletter Credit...David Brandon Geeting Sections Skip to contentSkip to site index Bridge Was Their Passion. Then People Started to Die. A bridge club was a social draw for scores of older Coloradans. Now, with four members dead from the virus, its future is unclear. Credit...David Brandon Geeting By Jack Healy April 29, 2020, 5:00 a.m. ET DENVER — It had already been a grim day. The governor of Colorado had just announced the state’s first coronavirus death, an 83-year-old woman, when public health investigators discovered where she had spent some of her final days: a bridge club. Leon Kelly, the county coroner in Colorado Springs, felt his stomach drop. “It was full-throttle, worst-case scenario,” he said. For decades, the Colorado Springs Bridge Center had been a social hub for retirees immersed in the world of trumps, tricks and cutthroat bidding strategies. The players would spend afternoons inside their clubhouse overlooking Pikes Peak, snacking on popcorn and celery sticks and showing off photos of their grandchildren while playing hand after hand. Now, the club had become a new breeding ground for a virus that has carved through family funerals, church gatherings, nursing homes and choir practices across the country, striking groups of older, vulnerable people with cruel efficiency. That evening on March 13, Dr. Kelly hurriedly called an aunt and asked her: Tell me everything you can about bridge. How do players sit? How many cards do they touch? He could already picture the virus spreading as players moved from table to table, passing cards from hand to hand, seeding an invisible course of infection. Four of the bridge center’s members are now dead and at least 25 others have spent the past month fighting symptoms of the virus. The clubhouse is empty. And as members pass their quarantines playing online bridge and sharing updates about who is recovering and who is still in the hospital, some worry that the simple ritual of playing cards together will never feel safe again. Image The evening after the first death from Covid-19 was announced in Colorado, Leon Kelly, El Paso County’s coroner, hurriedly called an aunt to learn about bridge.Credit...Benjamin Rasmussen for The New York Times “Bridge is a very social game,” said Jeff Rapp, a player who knew the first victim. “We speak to each other. We like to have snacks when we play. There are so many things connected with duplicate bridge that are now dangerous.” In duplicate bridge, partners sit across from each other at a four-person table, and the cards are tucked into plastic trays that circulate from table to table. The game is infinitely complex, but the goal is simple: Make a smart bid, and play the best hand you can with the cards you are dealt. Bridge was a passion for some. For others, it was a good excuse to get out of the house, keep their minds sharp and connect with friends and neighbors over a $5 game. Latest Updates: Coronavirus Outbreak in the U.S. 100 days, one million confirmed infections, and a country transformed. New C.D.C. statistics reveal more about the true toll. A report on the U.S. economy is going to be bad, and the Fed is weighing further interventions. See more updates Updated 24m ago More live coverage: Global Markets New York “What are the senior citizens going to do for activities?” said John Dukellis, who helped coordinate games. “It’s cheaper than a movie. It’s their social group. It’s their lives. It hit us blindsided.” The club’s members had barbecues and lunch at one another’s homes and ran educational classes to interest young people in bridge (a tough sell). They posted celebratory photos on their Facebook page when Wayne became a bronze-level life master or when Chris and Susan “really brought it” one afternoon. Members said the coronavirus still seemed like a faraway threat at the end of February, when they got together for some pairs games and a “299er” tournament for beginner and intermediate players over a five-day stretch. Some were worried enough about the grim news coming out of the Pacific Northwest that they decided to skip the tournament. As they sat down at the blue-topped card tables, people in a Seattle-area nursing home were being rushed to a hospital with fevers and coughs, and the nation’s death count from the coronavirus, still in the single digits, was ticking up. Colorado would not announce its first coronavirus cases until March 5, and like most states, it was not yet restricting businesses or social gatherings or ordering people to stay home. Mr. Rapp, 65, who ran some of the games, dug around in the clubhouse closet and set out hand sanitizer. About 150 people showed up to play during those five days from Feb. 27 to March 3. During one hand, a woman shielded her face with cards when an opponent sighed heavily. “We were aware of coronavirus cases popping up,” Mr. Rapp said. “The people who wanted to play came to play.” The virus came too. Public health officials in Colorado Springs say they believe that the 83-year-old woman was the first to bring the virus into the bridge club. She had not traveled recently, and officials said they did not know how she contracted it. Club members described her as a beginner player who had recently started attending more games because she was excited about playing in the upcoming 299er tournament. Her friends and partners said she was excited to play, but public health officials said she began feeling sick as the tournament went on. “She was just living her life with minor symptoms like we’ve all done before,” said Dr. Kelly, the coroner, who was also drafted to become deputy medical director for the El Paso County’s public health agency as the outbreak erupted. “This lady is just one more victim in the chain of events. Not the cause.” She died in a hospital on March 13, and her coronavirus test came back positive a couple of hours later. Some of her family was already getting sick. Public health officials raced to figure out who else might be walking around infected. The club provided a list of 100 bridge players, and the county set up a hotline for people who suspected they had been exposed. The circle kept growing. One bridge player had gone to a choir practice: Add another 150 names to the list. The county’s four-person epidemiology staff got so swamped that it drafted coroner’s investigators to start calling. Pete Coggeshall, 80, was one name on the list. He sat beside the 83-year-old woman on March 3. Days later, he started to feel a strange cold coming on. Coca-Cola, which he loved, tasted strange. He avoided the common communion cup during Sunday services at the Rock of Ages Lutheran Church, and then felt worse after he got home. He ended up in a hospital for three days. “It was like somebody hit me with a brick,” he said. Mr. Coggeshall and other members have puzzled over how the infection circulated through the games — The plastic boards holding the cards? An invisible mist in the air? The snack table stocked with supermarket cold cuts? — but they said there was no way of knowing for sure. The club started its own list. A group that was meticulous about tallying scores and the “master points” that players earned over a lifetime now had other wins and losses to chart. They tracked who was waiting on a coronavirus test. Who was on a ventilator. Who was fading. Critical but stable condition, some improvements, still in ICU. All day in ER. Not lucid, couldn’t answer her age, what day it was, etc. Profoundly weak, needs help eating. Has lost 20 pounds. The updates for a 67-year-old player simply said: March 15 In hospital March 19 Died March 25 Obituary in Gazette. The players’ death notices make no mention of the virus, obliquely citing a “sudden illness” and noting that memorials and funerals would be sometime in the future. Their families declined to talk, saying that their loved ones were private people or that the grief was still too raw. Other players are starting to heal. Dave Luk said his 80-year-old father, Joe, was rushed to the intensive-care unit at Penrose Hospital in Colorado Springs after he began struggling to breathe at home, where he lives alone, often playing bridge online for hours after getting home from the club. After two weeks in the hospital, he is off the ventilator and can talk again, with difficulty, Dave Luk said. The club has been closed since news broke of the first death, and members say nobody knows when it may reopen. Some are optimistic they will be able to reunite and grieve their friends and play together. Mr. Rapp, who helped run some games, is less certain. “It became ground zero,” he said. “There’s no telling how long this is going to go on.” For now, one task awaits. Mr. Rapp said he planned to collect the cards and burn them. The Coronavirus Outbreak Frequently Asked Questions and Advice Updated April 11, 2020 When will this end? This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days. How can I help? The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.) What should I do if I feel sick? If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. Should I wear a mask? The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. How do I get tested? If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. How does coronavirus spread? It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face. Is there a vaccine yet? No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away. What makes this outbreak so different? Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard. What if somebody in my family gets sick? If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently. Should I stock up on groceries? Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home. Can I go to the park? Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea. Should I pull my money from the markets? That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years. What should I do with my 401(k)? Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions