https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/28/us/coronavirus-today.html
Coronavirus Briefing: What Happened Today - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index U.S. Today’s Paper U.S.|Coronavirus Briefing: What Happened Today https://nyti.ms/2SxxZlJ The Coronavirus Outbreak debugid:204 • Latest Updates Maps and Tracker New Symptom List • Markets Life at Home Newsletter AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Coronavirus Briefing: What Happened Today Whenever schools finally reopen in the United States, the classroom could be a very different place. By Patrick J. Lyons April 28, 2020 This is the Coronavirus Briefing, an informed guide to the global outbreak. Sign up here to get the briefing by email. Image Credit...The locations of people who have tested positive in the U.S. There are now more than one million known cases in the U.S. President Trump plans to sign an executive order intended to keep meat processing plants open and head off shortages. More than 5,200 construction projects have reopened in New York City. Get the latest updates here, as well as maps, a tracker for U.S. metro areas and full coverage. When, and how, will America’s schools reopen? Now that nonessential businesses are starting to reopen in parts of the U.S., many are asking how soon children in those reopening districts can go back to school. But for most of the country, the answer looks likely to be, not until summer at the soonest, and maybe not until fall. And when they do return, educators say, it may be to a very different school day and classroom experience than they remember. Administrators are considering having half of their students come in the morning and the other half in the afternoon, or on alternate days, so that desks can be spread out and buses aren’t packed. Socially distanced lunchrooms. Teachers and students wearing face masks. Temperature checks at the front door. And forget note-passing, study groups or even recess. Nearly all states have already suspended in-person classes for the rest of the academic year, and even in states that haven’t, many districts have said spring is too soon to open the schoolhouse doors again. In California, Gov. Gavin Newsom said on Tuesday that classes might resume in July for a summer session to make up for lost class time. But in Illinois, officials have warned that remote learning could continue indefinitely. “This may be the new normal even in the fall,” said Janice Jackson, chief executive of Chicago Public Schools. Officials are keenly aware that the economy can’t really get back to normal until there are places for children to safely spend the day while their parents are at work. “But we need to do it in a safe way,” Governor Newsom said this month, “so that kids are not going to school, getting infected and coming back home and infecting Grandma and Grandpa.” Ahead of the U.S.: Some nations, where the outbreak has ebbed, have already reopened schools, albeit in virus-colored ways. In Denmark, classes as well as other activities are being held partly outdoors. Students in China have returned to classrooms with glass desk dividers and teachers in protective suits. Federal guidelines: The C.D.C. plans to issue detailed guidance soon on how American schools, day care centers, restaurants and churches can reopen. The Washington Post has a working draft of the guidelines; most of it boils down to what you’ve already heard: sanitize everything and everybody, stay a good distance apart, minimize contact with outsiders and watch vigilantly for signs of illness. Latest Updates: Coronavirus Outbreak in the U.S. 100 days, one million confirmed infections, and a country transformed. New C.D.C. statistics reveal more about the true toll. A report on the U.S. economy is going to be bad, and the Fed is weighing further interventions. See more updates Updated 4m ago More live coverage: Global Markets New York The Times is providing free access to much of our coronavirus coverage, and our Coronavirus Briefing newsletter — like all of our newsletters — is free. Please consider supporting our journalism with a subscription. Federal testing efforts lag, but one state is going strong Widespread testing for the coronavirus is an important step in restarting public life: Officials need it to pinpoint hot spots and stave off new waves of infection. But the federal government has struggled to make it happen. The U.S. has conducted about 5.2 million coronavirus tests in the past seven weeks; on Monday, President Trump unveiled a new plan to assist state testing efforts, which he said would “double” that figure. According to a panel of experts convened by Harvard University, though, the country needs to be conducting five million tests a day by early June for a safe social reopening, and ramping up to 20 million a day by late July. Rhode Island offers an encouraging example of the difference that large-scale testing can make. It has managed to test about 5 percent of its population so far, a larger share than any other state. Lots of cases were found that might otherwise have been overlooked, so the state’s infection count has ballooned. But officials there now have a better handle on the spread of the virus than those in most other states. Rhode Island has also deployed a legion of workers to trace the contacts of infected individuals, and it has set up free testing locations in cities. It is now using the data to plan a measured reopening in two weeks. Faulty tests: On today’s episode of “The Daily,” Katie Thomas, who covers the health care industry for The Times, explains how flawed diagnostic testing has hamstrung U.S. policymakers. The future of live cultural events As states and countries gradually reopen, the arts world is finding inventive ways to hold performances and to welcome patrons again — with plenty of precautions. South Korea may be leading the way once more. Gallery openings have resumed in Seoul, where attendants take down the name, address and phone number of visitors to aid with contact tracing, in case anyone later learns of exposure to the coronavirus. Fashion-forward patrons now don face masks, the latest accessory, to attend events. In the U.S., the Barrington Stage Company in Massachusetts says it plans to have live theatrical performances this summer, with pared-down programming and a modified theater. Instead of its usual ambitious musicals, Barrington will look to stage one-person shows and a play in which the relationships are so strained, social distancing will seem easy. Kissing scenes and sword fights are on indefinite hiatus. The theater is also removing every second row of seats, opening more entrances and eliminating intermissions to prevent restroom lines. And all attendees will have to wear masks (though they needn’t be Comedy or Tragedy). Acting class moves online: Zoom lessons may not be ideal for learning how to perform, but students are finding that videoconferencing can offer an unexpected plus: the opportunity for more intimacy and nuance. Tracking the true toll At least 40,000 more people have died during the coronavirus pandemic than the official death counts report, according to a Times analysis of mortality data in 12 countries. Deaths are difficult to track in the middle of a pandemic, in part because of the limited availability of testing. To reach their estimate, our colleagues compared the number of deaths and burials in the past month with the historical averages for each country. Hot spots Argentina, which has 4,033 confirmed cases and 197 deaths, has banned all commercial flights until Sept. 1, imposing the strictest travel ban in the Americas. It would be “exceedingly difficult” for Japan to host the Olympics without a vaccine, even in 2021, the president of the Japan Medical Association said. As Germany has started reopening, there has been an uptick in the rate of transmission for the virus. In Britain, where there have been 157,149 cases and 21,092 deaths, the government said it would give 60,000 pounds (about $75,000) to families of health care workers who die from the virus. What you can do Evaluate your budget: Your finances may be tight, but there are helpful changes you can make during the coronavirus lockdown. Here’s what to trim, and what not to touch, in your budget right now. Head outdoors (safely): Sunlight is not a cure for the coronavirus, but it does have other benefits for the mind and body. Try a 15- to 45-minute walk when possible, while being careful to maintain adequate social distance between yourself and others. Learn a new language: Here’s a list of ways to learn a new language while quarantined including apps, videos, video chats and foreign language films. Eat together: Samin Nosrat, the author of “Salt Fat Acid Heat,” is hosting a virtual feast on Sunday. Make her lasagna dish, and then tune into Instagram Live to celebrate with her. What else we’re following China is pushing back against the growing chorus of voices around the world calling for the country to pay compensation for the damage caused by the coronavirus pandemic. A rush to treatments. Hyping untested science. Bad biometrical research. The pandemic is exposing longstanding fault lines in medicine and thwarting the search for effective treatments, Slate reports. An archaic British law requiring the presence of two witnesses to sign a will is prompting people to take drastic measures like drive-by signings and passing documents through windows. JetBlue is requiring passengers to wear face masks on flights, becoming the first U.S. airline to do so. What you’re doing I’m five months pregnant with our first baby, and unable to attend the group prenatal classes I’d always imagined I would. My husband wants to be supportive, so now we do an online prenatal yoga video together in the mornings. He doesn’t quite understand my aches and pains like another pregnant lady, but his enthusiasm is all I need. — Emma Noizumi, San Francisco Let us know how you’re dealing with the outbreak. Send us a response here, and we may feature it in an upcoming newsletter. Sign up here to get the briefing by email. Lara Takenaga and Jonathan Wolfe contributed to today’s newsletter. The Coronavirus Outbreak Frequently Asked Questions and Advice Updated April 11, 2020 When will this end? This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days. How can I help? The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.) What should I do if I feel sick? If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. Should I wear a mask? The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. How do I get tested? If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. How does coronavirus spread? It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face. Is there a vaccine yet? No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away. What makes this outbreak so different? Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard. What if somebody in my family gets sick? If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently. Should I stock up on groceries? Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home. Can I go to the park? Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea. Should I pull my money from the markets? That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years. What should I do with my 401(k)? Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions