https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/County_seat
County seat - Wikipedia
County seat From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Administrative center for a county or civil parish A county seat is an administrative center (perhap described as a seat of government, or a capital city), of a county or civil parish. Nations using the term is include the following: Canada China Romania Taiwan the United States County towns play similar roles in the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland, and, historically, in Jamaica. Contents 1 Function 2 Canada 3 Taiwan 3.1 Lists of Taiwan county seats by county 4 United States 4.1 U.S. counties with more than one county seat 4.2 Other variations 4.2.1 New England 4.2.2 Virginia 4.2.3 South Dakota 4.2.4 Louisiana 4.2.5 Alaska 4.3 Lists of U.S. county seats by state 5 See also 6 References 7 External links Function[edit] In most of the United States, counties are the political subdivisions of a state. The city, town, or populated place that houses county government is known as the seat of its respective county. Generally, the county legislature, county courthouse, sheriff's department headquarters, hall of records, jail and correctional facility are located in the county seat, though some functions (such as highway maintenance, which usually requires a large garage for vehicles, along with asphalt and salt storage facilities) may also be located or conducted in other parts of the county, especially if it is geographically large. A county seat is usually, but not always, an incorporated municipality. The exceptions include the county seats of counties that have no incorporated municipalities within their borders, such as Arlington County, Virginia (where the county seat is the entire county[1]). Ellicott City, the county seat of Howard County, is the largest unincorporated county seat in the United States, followed by Towson, the county seat of Baltimore County, Maryland. Likewise, some county seats may not be incorporated in their own right, but are located within incorporated municipalities. For example, Cape May Court House, New Jersey, though unincorporated, is a section of Middle Township, an incorporated municipality. In some of the colonial states, county seats include or formerly included "Court House" as part of their name, (e.g. Spotsylvania Courthouse, Virginia). Canada[edit] In the Canadian provinces of Prince Edward Island, New Brunswick, and Nova Scotia, the term "shire town" is used in place of county seat. Taiwan[edit] Miaoli City is the county seat of Miaoli County. County seats in Taiwan are the administrative centers of the counties. Currently there are 13 county seats in Taiwan, which are in the forms of county-administered city, urban township or rural township. Lists of Taiwan county seats by county[edit] See also: County (Taiwan) Changhua City Douliu City Hualien City Jincheng Township Magong City Miaoli City Nangan Township Nantou City Pingtung City Taibao City Taitung City Yilan City Zhubei City United States[edit] Many county seats in the United States feature a historic courthouse, such as this one in Renville County, Minnesota, pictured in May 2015. U.S. counties with more than one county seat[edit] Most counties have only one county seat. However, some counties in Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Iowa, Kentucky, Massachusetts, Mississippi, Missouri, New Hampshire, New York, and Vermont have two or more county seats, usually located on opposite sides of the county. An example is Harrison County, Mississippi, which lists both Biloxi and Gulfport as county seats, and Hinds County, Mississippi, which lists both Raymond and the state capital of Jackson. The practice of multiple county seat towns dates from the days when travel was difficult. There have been few efforts to eliminate the two-seat arrangement, since a county seat is a source of pride (and jobs) for the towns involved. There are 36 counties with multiple county seats (no more than two each) in 11 states: Coffee County, Alabama[2] St. Clair County, Alabama Arkansas County, Arkansas Carroll County, Arkansas Clay County, Arkansas Craighead County, Arkansas Franklin County, Arkansas Logan County, Arkansas Mississippi County, Arkansas Prairie County, Arkansas Sebastian County, Arkansas Yell County, Arkansas Columbia County, Georgia Lee County, Iowa Campbell County, Kentucky Kenton County, Kentucky Essex County, Massachusetts Middlesex County, Massachusetts Plymouth County, Massachusetts Bolivar County, Mississippi Carroll County, Mississippi Chickasaw County, Mississippi Harrison County, Mississippi Hinds County, Mississippi Jasper County, Mississippi Jones County, Mississippi Panola County, Mississippi Tallahatchie County, Mississippi Yalobusha County, Mississippi Jackson County, Missouri Hillsborough County, New Hampshire Seneca County, New York Bennington County, Vermont Other variations[edit] New England[edit] In New England, the town, not the county, is the primary division of local government. Historically, counties in this region have served mainly as dividing lines for the states' judicial systems. Connecticut (since 1960) and Rhode Island have no county level of government and thus no county seats, and Massachusetts has dissolved many but not all of its county governments. In Vermont, Massachusetts,[3] and Maine[4] the county seats are legally designated shire towns. County government consists only of a Superior Court and Sheriff (as an officer of the court), both located in the respective shire town. Bennington County has two shire towns (Manchester for the North Shire, Bennington for the South Shire), but the Sheriff is located in Bennington. Virginia[edit] In Virginia, a county seat may be an independent city surrounded by, but not part of, the county of which it is the administrative center; for example, Fairfax City is both the county seat of Fairfax County and completely surrounded by Fairfax County, but the city is politically independent of the county. South Dakota[edit] Two counties in South Dakota (Oglala Lakota and Todd) have their county seat and government services centered in a neighboring county. Their county-level services are provided by Fall River County and Tripp County, respectively.[5] Louisiana[edit] In Louisiana, which is divided into parishes rather than counties, county seats are referred to as parish seats. Alaska[edit] Alaska is divided into boroughs rather than counties; the county seat in these case is referred to as the "borough seat"; this includes six consolidated city-borough governments (one of which is styled as a "municipality"). The Unorganized Borough, which covers 49% of Alaska's area, has no county seat or equivalent. Lists of U.S. county seats by state[edit] The state with the most counties is Texas, with 254, and the state with the fewest counties is Delaware, with 3. Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming See also[edit] United States portal County seat war Administrative center County town, administrative centres in Ireland and the UK Chef-lieu, administrative centres in Algeria, Belgium, Luxembourg, France, Switzerland, and Tunisia Municipality, equivalent to county in many countries References[edit] ^ "Counties in Virginia and the Location of Their Seats of Government" (PDF). Virginia Commission on Local Government. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2018-11-13. Retrieved 2018-04-10. ^ Coffee County, Alabama. "History of Coffee County". Archived from the original on 2011-10-27. Retrieved 2011-08-19. ^ "MGL c. 231, s. 82". Retrieved 2013-07-15. ^ "Title 33, §701: Office in shire town". mainelegislature.org. ^ Sdcounties.org. "Shannon County, South Dakota". Archived from the original on 25 April 2012. Retrieved 10 May 2012. External links[edit] National Association of Counties Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=County_seat&oldid=952755532" Categories: Administrative divisions Hidden categories: Articles with short description Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages العربية Bân-lâm-gú Български Bosanski Català Dansk Deutsch Español Esperanto فارسی Français 한국어 Հայերեն हिन्दी Bahasa Indonesia Italiano עברית Latina മലയാളം Nederlands 日本語 Norsk bokmål Polski Português Română Русский Scots Shqip Simple English Українська اردو Tiếng Việt 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 23 April 2020, at 22:54 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view