https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/us/elections/calendar-primary-results.html?action=click&module=ELEX_results&pgtype=Interactive&region=PastResultsFooter
2018 Midterm Election Results - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search The New York Times Elections |2018 Midterm Election Results Log In 0 Settings Close search Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go https://nyti.ms/2G6a8l4 Loading... See next articles See previous articles Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation Advertisement Elections 2018 Midterm Election Results By THE NEW YORK TIMES UPDATED NOV. 27, 2018 Election 2018 Follow live election results from The New York Times House Senate Governor The 2018 midterm elections, which featured hundreds of congressional, state and local primaries, culminated with the Nov. 6 general election. Democrats gained control of the House while Republicans kept power in the Senate. Upcoming Elections Nov. 27 Elections near you Mississippi special Senate runoff election Voters will decide the outcome of the special Senate race, which forced a runoff election when no candidate won a majority of the vote on Nov. 6. Full results » Dec. 4 Elections near you Georgia runoff election for state and local offices A runoff election for federal offices is set for Jan. 8, 2019. Dec. 8 Elections near you Louisiana general election Past Elections Feb. 27 Elections near you Arizona special House primaries The Republican Debbie Lesko and the Democrat Hiral Tipirneni advanced to the general election on April 24. The seat, which Ms. Lesko went on to win, had been vacated when Representative Trent Franks resigned over sexual misconduct accusations. Full results » March 6 Elections near you Texas primaries Senate: Ted Cruz is up for re-election. House: 4 out of 36 races are competitive in the general election. Texas Democrats surged to the polls, demonstrating a wave of Trump-inspired energy, but also revealing internal divisions at the outset of a midterm campaign that looks otherwise promising to the party. Read more about the primaries. Full results » March 13 Elections near you Pennsylvania special House general election Conor Lamb, a Democrat and former Marine, scored a razor-thin but extraordinary upset in a special House election in southwestern Pennsylvania, in the heart of President Trump’s Rust Belt base. The State Supreme Court recently issued a new map with redrawn boundaries, though, so Mr. Lamb ran in a different district in May. Full results » March 20 Elections near you Illinois primaries House: 4 out of 18 races are competitive in the general election. Gov. Bruce Rauner, a Republican first-term incumbent, and J.B. Pritzker, a Democratic billionaire heir and businessman, emerged from the gubernatorial primaries, while the incumbent in a closely watched Democratic congressional primary overcame a progressive challenge. The governor’s race promises to be be fiercely fought and dominated by big money, with each candidate controlling tremendous sums of personal wealth. Full results » April 24 Elections near you Arizona special House general election Debbie Lesko, a Republican former state senator, fended off an unusually strong Democratic challenge to win a special election in the Eighth District, near Phoenix. Her victory demonstrated the resilience of the Republican base, but also showed how eager liberals are to compete even in reliably conservative districts. Read more. Full results » May 8 Three vulnerable Democratic senators run for re-election. Elections near you Indiana primaries Senate: Joe Donnelly is up for re-election. Mr. Donnelly, who is believed to be one of the most vulnerable Democrats in the Senate, will face Mike Braun, a business executive who won the bruising Republican primary, in November. Full results » Elections near you North Carolina primaries House: 3 out of 13 races are competitive in the general election. Mark Harris, a Baptist minister who opposes same-sex marriage, defeated Representative Robert Pittenger in a Republican primary, making Mr. Pittenger the first incumbent from either party to lose a seat in Congress because of a primary challenger this year. Full results » Elections near you Ohio primaries Senate: Sherrod Brown is up for re-election. House: 2 out of 16 races are competitive in the general election. The race to succeed Gov. John Kasich will be a bruising national fight because the nominees — Attorney General Mike DeWine, a Republican, and Richard Cordray, a consumer advocate and Democrat — are ideological opposites. Full results » Elections near you West Virginia primaries Senate: Joe Manchin III is up for re-election. House: 1 out of 3 races is competitive in the general election. Mr. Manchin, a Democrat in a red state that Mr. Trump won handily, will face Attorney General Patrick Morrisey, a Republican, in the general election. Mr. Morrisey defeated Don Blankenship, a former coal mining executive who spent a year in prison for his role in a fatal mining explosion, and Representative Evan Jenkins in the primary. Full results » May 15 Elections near you Idaho primaries Lt. Gov. Brad Little won the Republican nomination to replace the three-term incumbent Butch Otter, who is retiring. Mr. Little is expected to easily win the general election in November. Full results » Elections near you Nebraska primaries Senate: Deb Fischer is up for re-election. House: 1 out of 3 races is competitive in the general election. Kara Eastman, a liberal Democrat, narrowly won the primary to challenge Representative Don Bacon, a Republican, in what is expected to be a competitive race in November. The Democratic primary focused heavily on abortion, with Ms. Eastman supporting abortion rights and her opponent, Brad Ashford, supporting more restrictions. Full results » Elections near you Oregon primaries State Representative Knute Buehler defeated nine other Republicans in Oregon’s gubernatorial primary and will face Gov. Kate Brown, a Democrat, in November. The seat is considered safe for Democrats. Full results » Elections near you Pennsylvania primaries Senate: Bob Casey is up for re-election. House: 4 out of 18 races are competitive in the general election. The first test of Pennsylvania’s redrawn congressional districts resulted in primary victories for several Democratic women. The new map is more favorable to Democrats than even the Democrats expected, and the party could well pick up four or more seats here in November. Full results » May 22 Elections near you Georgia primaries House: 2 out of 14 races are competitive in the general election. Stacey Abrams, a Democratic former State House leader, became Georgia’s first black nominee for governor, a prize that has eluded earlier generations of African-American candidates in the state. Her candidacy will test just how much the state’s traditionally conservative politics are shifting. Read more here. Full results » Elections near you Kentucky primaries House: 1 out of 6 races is competitive in the general election. In the Democratic primary to challenge Representative Andy Barr, Amy McGrath, a former Marine fighter pilot running for office for the first time, upset national Democrats’ candidate of choice, Mayor Jim Gray of Lexington. Full results » Elections near you Arkansas primaries Full results » Elections near you Texas primaries runoff Full results » June 5 Democrats look to swing seats in California and New Jersey. Elections near you California primaries Senate: Dianne Feinstein is up for re-election. House: 6 out of 53 races are competitive in the general election. Gavin Newsom, the Democratic lieutenant governor, and John Cox, a Republican businessman, emerged from a crowded field in the governor’s race in California to advance to the general election, as did Ms. Feinstein, a Democrat, in the Senate race. In key House districts they hope to capture in November, Democrats avoided being shut out of the general election under the state’s “top two" primary system. Read more about the primary night in California. Full results » Elections near you Mississippi primaries Senate: Roger Wicker is up for re-election. Senator Thad Cochran’s decision to retire set off a game of musical chairs. Instead of Senator Roger Wicker having to defending his seat from a major rival in a Republican primary in June, the state’s big battle is expected in November, when there will be a special election to finish Mr. Cochran’s term. Chris McDaniel, a state senator who almost unseated Mr. Cochran in 2014 and had previously decided to challenge Mr. Wicker, will run in a growing field for Mr. Cochran’s seat instead. Mr. Wicker won his primary handily in this deeply red state. Full results » Elections near you Montana primaries Senate: Jon Tester is up for re-election. House: 1 race is competitive in the general election. Republicans nominated their state auditor, Matt Rosendale, a Maryland native, to challenge Senator Jon Tester, one of the nation’s most vulnerable Democrats. Full results » Elections near you New Jersey primaries Senate: Robert Menendez is up for re-election. House: 3 out of 12 races are competitive in the general election. A former Navy pilot, a veteran White House national security adviser and a conservative pro-gun state senator won Democratic nominations to represent battleground congressional districts in New Jersey, officially earning their spots on the front lines in a state that could determine control of the House. Read more in our analysis. Full results » Elections near you New Mexico primaries Senate: Martin Heinrich is up for re-election. House: 1 out of 3 races is competitive in the general election. Representative Michelle Lujan Grisham, who prevailed in the Democratic primary for governor, will face Steve Pearce, a Republican congressman, in the general election. If Ms. Lujan Grisham were elected, she would be the first Latina Democratic governor in the United States, replacing Gov. Susana Martinez, a term-limited Republican who is also Latina. Read more here. Full results » Elections near you Alabama primaries Full results » Elections near you Iowa primaries House: 3 out of 4 races are competitive in the general election. Full results » Elections near you South Dakota primaries Full results » June 12 Elections near you Nevada primaries Senate: Dean Heller is up for re-election. House: 2 out of 4 races are competitive in the general election. The Senate race is expected to be one of the most competitive in November, but the primaries were quiet. Representative Jacky Rosen, a Democrat, and Senator Dean Heller, a Republican, both easily won their respective nominations. Full results » Elections near you South Carolina primaries House: 1 out of 7 races is competitive in the general election. In one of the biggest upsets so far this year, Representative Mark Sanford, a Republican former governor once seen as a possible presidential candidate, lost to a conservative primary challenger, Katie Arrington. Read more. Full results » Elections near you Virginia primaries Senate: Tim Kaine is up for re-election. House: 4 out of 11 races are competitive in the general election. Corey Stewart, a Republican who has defended the Confederacy and praised white nationalists, won his primary and will face Senator Tim Kaine, a Democrat, in November. Republican officials are worried that his primary victory may hurt down-ballot candidates. Full results » Elections near you Maine primaries Senate: Angus King is up for re-election. House: 1 out of 2 races is competitive in the general election. Full results » Elections near you North Dakota primaries Senate: Heidi Heitkamp is up for re-election. Full results » June 19 Elections near you District of Columbia primaries Full results » Elections near you Arkansas primaries runoff June 26 New York Democrats are energized to run in Republican-held districts. Elections near you New York primaries Senate: Kirsten Gillibrand is up for re-election. House: 5 out of 27 races are competitive in the general election. In a major upset, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a 28-year-old former Bernie Sanders campaign organizer, defeated longtime congressman and Democratic leader Joseph Crowley in the primary for a House district in the Bronx and Queens. Full results » Elections near you Colorado primaries House: 1 out of 7 races is competitive in the general election. Four candidates from each party ran for Colorado’s open governorship, in a race that will test whether social and economic changes are turning Colorado more reliably blue. The state’s 1.2 million independent voters were able to participate in party primaries for the first time. Full results » Elections near you Maryland primaries Senate: Benjamin L. Cardin is up for re-election. Chelsea Manning, a former Army private convicted of disclosing classified information, lost in the Democratic primary against Mr. Cardin. Full results » Elections near you Oklahoma primaries Mick Cornett won the Republican gubernatorial primary and will aim to replace Gov. Mary Fallon, who has reached her term limit. Full results » Elections near you Utah primaries Senate: The Senate race is open. (Senator Orrin G. Hatch is not seeking re-election.) House: 1 out of 4 races is competitive in the general election. Mitt Romney, a former Republican presidential candidate and a critic of Mr. Trump, cruised to victory in the primary. Full results » Elections near you South Carolina primaries runoff Gov. Henry McMaster, a Republican who has aligned himself closely with President Trump, defeated the businessman John Warren after being forced into a primary runoff. Full results » Elections near you Mississippi primaries runoff Full results » June 30 Elections near you Texas special House election A Republican, Michael Cloud, won the special election in Texas for the Congressional seat of Blake Farenthold, a Republican who resigned in April amid a sexual harassment scandal. Full results » July 17 Elections near you Alabama primaries runoff Representative Martha Roby won her Republican primary election that unfolded as a test of fealty to President Trump, defeating a challenger who assailed her for withdrawing her support for Mr. Trump in the last days of the 2016 campaign. Full results » July 24 Elections near you Georgia primaries runoff Brian Kemp, Georgia’s secretary of state, captured the Republican nomination for governor, easily dispatching the preferred candidate of the state party establishment after a series of provocative ads that evoked President Trump’s incendiary politics and a well-timed endorsement from the president himself. Full results » Aug. 2 Elections near you Tennessee primaries Senate: The Senate race is open. (Senator Bob Corker is not seeking re-election.) Bill Lee, a wealthy businessman, won the Republican nomination for governor, beating five other candidates, including Representative Diane Black, who had aggressively tied herself to the Trump administration. Mr. Lee will face Karl Dean, a former Nashville mayor who easily won the Democratic primary, in the race to succeed Gov. Bill Haslam, a term-limited Republican. Full results » Aug. 7 Elections near you Ohio special House general election Republicans succeeded in holding on to a traditionally safe congressional district when State Senator Troy Balderson eked out a narrow victory over a Democratic challenger, Danny O’Connor in a special election whose result was too close to call for nearly three weeks. Mr. Balderson will hold the seat for just over two months before he faces Mr. O’Connor again in the general election in November. Full results » Elections near you Kansas primaries House: 2 out of 4 races are competitive in the general election. A week after voters went to the polls in Kansas, Gov. Jeff Colyer conceded in the race for the Republican nomination for governor, handing a razor-thin victory to Secretary of State Kris W. Kobach. Full results » Elections near you Michigan primaries Senate: Debbie Stabenow is up for re-election. House: 3 out of 14 races are competitive in the general election. Gretchen Whitmer, a former leader in the Michigan State Senate, captured the Democratic nomination for governor and will face off against the state’s Republican attorney general, Bill Schuette, in a race that looms as a pivotal test of whether Democrats can reclaim power in a state President Trump won two years ago. Full results » Elections near you Missouri primaries Senate: Claire McCaskill is up for re-election. House: 1 out of 8 races is competitive in the general election. After a succession of political setbacks in onetime strongholds and a landmark defeat in the Supreme Court, organized labor notched a hard-won victory as Missouri voters overrode a legislative move to curb union power. Full results » Elections near you Washington primaries Senate: Maria Cantwell is up for re-election. House: 3 out of 10 races are competitive in the general election. Full results » Aug. 11 Elections near you Hawaii primaries Senate: Mazie K. Hirono is up for re-election. A crowded Democratic primary is likely to determine who takes the open House seat in the Honolulu-based First District. Full results » Aug. 14 Democratic senators are up for re-election. Elections near you Minnesota primaries Senate: Tina Smith is running to continue serving the rest of Senator Al Franken’s term. Senate: Amy Klobuchar is up for re-election. House: 4 out of 8 races are competitive in the general election. Ms. Smith, a Democrat, took office in January as a temporary replacement after Mr. Franken resigned amid sexual misconduct accusations. Now, she is running for the final two years of the term; Republicans see an opening to pick off the seat. Full results » Elections near you Wisconsin primaries Senate: Tammy Baldwin is up for re-election. House: 1 out of 8 races is competitive in the general election. Speaker Paul D. Ryan's mid-April announcement that he will not seek re-election for the First District signaled the peril that the Republican majority in the House faces. Full results » Elections near you Connecticut primaries Senate: Christopher S. Murphy is up for re-election. Full results » Elections near you Vermont primaries Senate: Bernie Sanders is up for re-election. Full results » Aug. 21 Elections near you Alaska primaries House: 1 race is competitive in the general election. Full results » Elections near you Wyoming primaries Senate: John Barrasso is up for re-election. Full results » Aug. 28 Two states hold critical primaries for the Senate and House. Elections near you Arizona primaries Senate: The Senate race is open. (Senator Jeff Flake is not seeking re-election.) House: 2 out of 9 races are competitive in the general election. Republican primary voters chose the establishment favorite, Representative Martha McSally, to replace Mr. Trump’s most outspoken G.O.P. critic in the Senate, Jeff Flake, in a contest that evolved into a test of which candidate could embrace Mr. Trump most snugly. Full results » Elections near you Florida primaries Senate: Bill Nelson is up for re-election. House: 7 out of 27 races are competitive in the general election. Florida Democrats nominated Andrew Gillum, the Tallahassee mayor, and Republicans tapped Representative Ron DeSantis for governor, setting the stage for a ferocious general election in the country’s largest swing state between one of President Trump’s most unabashed allies and an outspoken progressive who would be Florida’s first black governor. Full results » Elections near you Oklahoma primaries runoff Full results » Sept. 4 Elections near you Massachusetts primaries Senate: Elizabeth Warren is up for re-election. Full results » Sept. 6 Elections near you Delaware primaries Senate: Thomas R. Carper is up for re-election. Full results » Sept. 11 Elections near you New Hampshire primaries Full results » Sept. 12 Elections near you Rhode Island primaries Senate: Sheldon Whitehouse is up for re-election. Full results » Sept. 13 Elections near you New York primaries for state and local offices Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat, is facing a primary challenge from the actress Cynthia Nixon. Full results » Nov. 6 The general election will decide who controls the Senate and House. In the Senate midterm elections, Democrats hope to win at least two new seats to regain control of the chamber, but their margin for error is slim. A majority of the seats up for election in 2018 are currently held by Democrats. Get a full preview here. 26 Democratic incumbents* STATE INCUMBENT RATING Fla. Bill Nelson Nelson, FL Tossup Ind. Joe Donnelly Donnelly, IN Tossup Mo. Claire McCaskill McCaskill, MO Tossup Mont. Jon Tester Tester, MT Tossup N.J. Robert Menendez Menendez, NJ Tossup Minn. Tina Smith Smith, MN Lean D N.D. Heidi Heitkamp Heitkamp, ND Lean R W.Va. Joe Manchin III Manchin III, WV Lean D Mich. Debbie Stabenow Stabenow, MI Likely D Ohio Sherrod Brown Brown, OH Likely D Pa. Bob Casey Casey, PA Likely D Wis. Tammy Baldwin Baldwin, WI Likely D Calif. Dianne Feinstein Feinstein, CA Solid D Conn. Christopher S. Murphy Murphy, CT Solid D Del. Thomas R. Carper Carper, DE Solid D Hawaii Mazie K. Hirono Hirono, HI Solid D Mass. Elizabeth Warren Warren, MA Solid D Md. Benjamin L. Cardin Cardin, MD Solid D Maine Angus King King, ME Solid D Minn. Amy Klobuchar Klobuchar, MN Solid D N.M. Martin Heinrich Heinrich, NM Solid D N.Y. Kirsten Gillibrand Gillibrand, NY Solid D R.I. Sheldon Whitehouse Whitehouse, RI Solid D Va. Tim Kaine Kaine, VA Solid D Vt. Bernie Sanders Sanders, VT Solid D Wash. Maria Cantwell Cantwell, WA Solid D 9 Republican incumbents STATE INCUMBENT RATING Ariz. Open (Jeff Flake) Open, AZ Tossup Nev. Dean Heller Heller, NV Tossup Tenn. Open (Bob Corker) Open, TN Tossup Tex. Ted Cruz Cruz, TX Tossup Miss. Cindy Hyde-Smith Hyde-Smith, MS Lean R Miss. Roger Wicker Wicker, MS Solid R Neb. Deb Fischer Fischer, NE Solid R Utah Open (Orrin G. Hatch) Open, UT Solid R Wyo. John Barrasso Barrasso, WY Solid R In the House midterm elections, Democrats need to flip 23 seats to capture the 218 seats necessary for control of the chamber. There are 194 likely or solidly Democratic seats and 166 likely or solidly Republican seats. The competitive races below are listed by state and district number. Get the latest updates here. 16 races lean Dem. Arizona 1AZ-01 Arizona 2AZ-02 Colorado 6CO-06 Florida 27FL-27 Iowa 1IA-01 Illinois 6IL-06 Kansas 3KS-03 Michigan 11MI-11 Minnesota 2MN-02 Minnesota 3MN-03 New Jersey 11NJ-11 Nevada 3NV-03 Nevada 4NV-04 Pennsylvania 7PA-07 Virginia 10VA-10 Washington 8WA-08 30 races are tossups California 10CA-10 California 25CA-25 California 39CA-39 California 45CA-45 California 48CA-48 Florida 15FL-15 Florida 26FL-26 Georgia 6GA-06 Iowa 3IA-03 Illinois 14IL-14 Kansas 2KS-02 Kentucky 6KY-06 Maine 2ME-02 Michigan 8MI-08 Minnesota 1MN-01 North Carolina 9NC-09 North Carolina 13NC-13 New Jersey 3NJ-03 New Jersey 7NJ-07 New Mexico 2NM-02 New York 19NY-19 New York 22NY-22 Ohio 12OH-12 Pennsylvania 1PA-01 Pennsylvania 10PA-10 Texas 7TX-07 Texas 32TX-32 Utah 4UT-04 Virginia 2VA-02 Virginia 7VA-07 29 races lean Rep. Alaska at-largeAK-00 California 50CA-50 Florida 6FL-06 Florida 16FL-16 Florida 18FL-18 Florida 25FL-25 Georgia 7GA-07 Iowa 4IA-04 Illinois 12IL-12 Illinois 13IL-13 Michigan 6MI-06 Minnesota 8MN-08 Missouri 2MO-02 Montana at-largeMT-00 North Carolina 2NC-02 Nebraska 2NE-02 New York 11NY-11 New York 24NY-24 New York 27NY-27 Ohio 1OH-01 Pennsylvania 16PA-16 South Carolina 1SC-01 Texas 22TX-22 Texas 23TX-23 Virginia 5VA-05 Washington 3WA-03 Washington 5WA-05 Wisconsin 1WI-01 West Virginia 3WV-03 In addition to congressional elections, there are also 36 governor’s races on the ballot in 2018. With the next redistricting process set for after the 2020 election, winning gubernatorial and state legislative control will be crucial for both parties. Nov. 6 Elections near you Louisiana primaries Have questions about subscribing to this calendar? Here are some answers: Does the calendar work with Android devices? Yes. Use the signup at the top of this page to subscribe using your Google account. The calendar will be synced to your phone. Is there a webcal/iCal feed I can use to subscribe directly? Use the link below: Copied! I subscribed to the calendar on my iPhone but it isn’t showing up on my computer or tablet. How do I fix that? You will need to add an iCloud Calendar subscription. Use the webcal link mentioned above. Can I subscribe if I use Outlook? Yes. Using the webcal link above, you can add the calendar to Outlook.com or an Outlook desktop client. How do I submit feedback, or suggest another important event that I think you missed? Email us at elections@nytimes.com. How do I unsubscribe? Google Calendar: Unsubscribe using a desktop computer iCloud: Delete the calendar from iCloud.com iPhone/iPad: Open “Settings,” then “Accounts,” and remove the calendar subscription. If you do not see any entry for the calendar, follow the directions for Google Calendar or iCloud. Race ratings are by Cook Political Report. *Senate Democratic totals include two independents who caucus with the Democrats. Runoff elections will be held only if necessary on the dates noted. Sources: Associated Press, offices of secretaries of state, National Governors Association, United States Senate, Federal Election Commission. By Keith Collins. Reporting was contributed by Kitty Bennett, Alan Blinder, Nate Cohn, Manny Fernandez, Trip Gabriel, Patricia Mazzei, Adam Nagourney and Mitch Smith. Britt Binler contributed calendar production. Dagny Salas contributed research. Correction: Jan. 25, 2018 An earlier version of this calendar misspelled the name of the senator from New York up for re-election. It is Kirsten Gillibrand, not Kristen. Correction: May 31, 2018 An earlier version of this calendar misstated the number of states won by President Trump that will have primaries on Aug. 14. It is one, not two. More on NYTimes.com Advertisement Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work with us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions