https://www.nytimes.com/by/lauren-leatherby
Lauren Leatherby - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Today’s Paper AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Lauren Leatherby Recent and archived work by Lauren Leatherby for The New York Times AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Latest Search Search Clear this text input How the Virus Transformed the Way Americans Spend Their Money Airlines and movie theaters are hurting. Grocery stores and streaming services are raking it in. By Lauren Leatherby and David Gelles Where America Didn’t Stay Home Even as the Virus Spread People in Florida and elsewhere continued to travel widely during the week of March 23, potentially exposing more people to the coronavirus, phone data shows. By James Glanz, Benedict Carey, Josh Holder, Derek Watkins, Jennifer Valentino-DeVries, Rick Rojas and Lauren Leatherby Coronavirus Could Overwhelm U.S. Without Urgent Action, Estimates Say Immediate steps to limit social contact in parts of the United States where few cases have been identified are needed to slow the outbreak, a model suggests. By James Glanz, Lauren Leatherby, Matthew Bloch, Mitch Smith, Larry Buchanan, Jin Wu and Nicholas Bogel-Burroughs What Would It Take for Bernie Sanders to Win? Mr. Sanders needs to do substantially better in the contests that remain to win the Democratic nomination. By Lauren Leatherby, Rich Harris, Nate Cohn and Josh Katz Which Candidates Got the Most Speaking Time in the Democratic Debate Sanders, Bloomberg and Klobuchar led the seven candidates onstage. By Weiyi Cai, Keith Collins and Lauren Leatherby Which Candidates Got the Most Speaking Time in the Democratic Debate Senators Elizabeth Warren and Amy Klobuchar led the six candidates onstage. By Sarah Almukhtar, Weiyi Cai and Lauren Leatherby Trump Impeachment Results: How Democrats and Republicans Voted See how each senator will vote on whether to convict and remove President Trump from office. By Weiyi Cai, Alicia Parlapiano, Lauren Leatherby, Blacki Migliozzi and Jeremy White Here’s a List of Everything That Went Wrong at the Iowa Caucuses An app used to record votes was faulty and largely untested, but the glitches weren’t the only reasons for a major delay in results in the first-in-the-nation presidential contest. By Lauren Leatherby, Lazaro Gamio and Keith Collins Democratic Delegate Count and Primary Election Results 2020 See how many delegates are available in each state. By Lauren Leatherby and Sarah Almukhtar How Democrats and Republicans Voted on Witnesses in the Trump Impeachment Trial See how each senator voted on whether to consider new evidence in the impeachment trial of President Trump. By Alicia Parlapiano, Weiyi Cai, Lauren Leatherby, Blacki Migliozzi, Jugal K. Patel, Joe Ward, Jeremy White and Karen Yourish Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Feedback? Questions? Include your name, the article headline, and your message. Email Author Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions