https://www.nytimes.com/by/sarah-almukhtar
Sarah Almukhtar - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Today’s Paper AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Sarah Almukhtar Sarah Almukhtar is a graphics editor based in New York, where she designs visual stories about the news. She studied architecture at the New Jersey Institute of Technology and earned a master's degree in urban planning from Columbia University. Ms. Almukhtar joined The New York Times in 2015. AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Latest Search Search Clear this text input Watch How the Coronavirus Spread Across the United States It’s been two months since the first confirmed case was reported in the United States. As testing expanded and the virus spread, the number of new cases has multiplied at a rapid pace. By Lazaro Gamio, Mitch Smith, Karen Yourish and Sarah Almukhtar ‘We Are Like Animals’: Inside Greece’s Secret Site for Migrants The extrajudicial center is one of several tactics Greece is using to prevent a repeat of the 2015 migration crisis. By Matina Stevis-Gridneff, Patrick Kingsley, Haley Willis, Sarah Almukhtar and Malachy Browne Here’s What’s at Stake in Super Tuesday States A third of all available Democratic delegates will be awarded on Tuesday — perhaps the single most important day on the 2020 primary calendar. Here’s your guide. By Sarah Almukhtar, Alexander Burns, Thomas Kaplan, Lisa Lerer, Reid J. Epstein and Umi Syam How Bloomberg Outspent His Rivals, and Sanders Outraised Them All By the end of January, Michael R. Bloomberg had spent more than four other leading Democratic candidates combined. By Sarah Almukhtar, Thomas Kaplan, K.K. Rebecca Lai and Rachel Shorey Which Candidates Got the Most Speaking Time in the Democratic Debate Senators Elizabeth Warren and Amy Klobuchar led the six candidates onstage. By Sarah Almukhtar, Weiyi Cai and Lauren Leatherby Which Candidates Got the Most Speaking Time in the Democratic Debate Senator Bernie Sanders and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. led the stage of seven candidates.Follow along live during the debate. By Sarah Almukhtar, Quoctrung Bui and Weiyi Cai Democratic Delegate Count and Primary Election Results 2020 See how many delegates are available in each state. By Lauren Leatherby and Sarah Almukhtar 2020 Democrats Went on a Spending Spree in the Final Months of 2019 As the first nominating contests approached, Democratic presidential candidates spent millions on ads and staff in the fourth quarter of 2019. By Sarah Almukhtar, Thomas Kaplan and Rachel Shorey Ready, Set, Vote: Here’s Everything You Need to Know for the 2020 Primaries The Iowa caucuses are around the corner. As you get ready for primary season, take a look at our cheat sheet on the race. By Sarah Almukhtar, Matt Flegenheimer, Umi Syam and Eden Weingart Maps: How the Confrontation Between the U.S. and Iran Escalated Here’s how the situation developed over the last two weeks. By Sarah Almukhtar, Falih Hassan, K.K. Rebecca Lai, Lauren Leatherby, Allison McCann, Anjali Singhvi and Jin Wu Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Follow Elsewhere sarahalmukhtartwitter page for sarahalmukhtar Feedback? Questions? Include your name, the article headline, and your message. Email Author Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions