https://www.nytimes.com/by/jonathan-martin
Jonathan Martin - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Today’s Paper Jonathan Martin Jonathan Martin is a national political correspondent for The New York Times. Before joining The Times, he had served as senior political writer for Politico since its inception in 2007. He began covering politics for National Journal’s political publication, The Hotline, and then reported on party politics and the aftermath of the 2006 midterm elections for National Review magazine. Mr. Martin is a co-author of the New York Times best seller “The End of the Line: Romney vs. Obama: The 34 Days That Decided the Election” (December 2012), the fourth and final e-book in Politico’s 2012 series on the race for the presidency. His work has been published in The New Republic, National Journal, The Washington Post and The Wall Street Journal. He has appeared frequently on television and radio as a political analyst and commentator, including on CNN, ABC, CBS, NBC, PBS, MSNBC and NPR. More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Latest Search Search Clear this text input Justin Amash Moves Toward a Third-Party Bid for President Mr. Amash, an independent congressman from Michigan who left the Republican Party last year, said he was exploring running as a Libertarian, adding new volatility to the race. By Jonathan Martin and Alexander Burns Nervous Republicans See Trump Sinking, and Taking Senate With Him The election is still six months away, but a rash of ominous new polls and the president’s erratic briefings have the G.O.P. worried about a Democratic takeover. By Jonathan Martin and Maggie Haberman A Key G.O.P. Strategy: Blame China. But Trump Goes Off Message. Republicans increasingly believe that elevating China’s culpability for spreading the coronavirus may be the best way to improve their difficult election chances. The president is muddying the message. By Jonathan Martin and Maggie Haberman 阅读简体中文版閱讀繁體中文版 Gretchen Whitmer Isn’t Backing Down Right-wing protesters, Republican lawmakers and President Trump are attacking the Michigan governor, a possible vice-presidential pick. “I’m not thinking about politics,” she says. By Trip Gabriel and Jonathan Martin Political Memo Hello, What’s This? The Democrats Aren’t in Disarray Many younger voters are not old enough to remember a Democratic presidential primary that ended so quickly and congenially. Could it help Joe Biden in the fall? By Jonathan Martin The East Coast, Always in the Spotlight, Owes a Debt to the West California, Oregon and Washington have shipped 1,000 ventilators to New York. Should Western states be getting more attention for their relative success in battling Covid-19? By Adam Nagourney and Jonathan Martin Trump Keeps Talking. Some Republicans Don’t Like What They’re Hearing. Aides and allies increasingly believe the president’s daily briefings are hurting him more than helping, and are urging him to let his medical experts take center stage. By Jonathan Martin and Maggie Haberman Biden vs. Trump: The General Election Is Here, and Transformed The coronavirus crisis means many questions remain about how the 2020 race will proceed, but the top of the ticket is now clear. By Alexander Burns and Jonathan Martin Bernie Sanders Drops Out of 2020 Democratic Race for President Mr. Sanders, a democratic socialist making his second run for the White House, withdrew after a series of losses to Joseph R. Biden Jr., who emerges as the presumptive nominee for the general election. By Sydney Ember Democrats Postpone Convention, and a Test of Wills With Republicans Looms The move is the biggest disruption to the political calendar so far because of the coronavirus, but could give Joe Biden, the likely presidential nominee, a lift heading into the fall. By Reid J. Epstein, Katie Glueck and Jonathan Martin Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Follow Elsewhere jmartnyttwitter page for jmartnyt Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions