https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/06/us/politics/states-drop-republican-primaries.html
G.O.P. Plans to Drop Presidential Primaries in 4 States to Impede Trump Challengers - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics|G.O.P. Plans to Drop Presidential Primaries in 4 States to Impede Trump Challengers https://nyti.ms/2PSyN5K Latest Results National Map Delegate Count Election Calendar Who’s Running AdvertisementContinue reading the main story G.O.P. Plans to Drop Presidential Primaries in 4 States to Impede Trump Challengers Video transcript Back bars 0:00/3:17 -3:17 transcript Who Are Trump’s Republican Challengers? Bill Weld, the former governor of Massachusetts, was the first Republican to announce that he would run against President Trump for the party’s 2020 nomination. Mark Sanford and Joe Walsh have also joined the race. We look at their political résumés and their strategies. “The lights are on in the White House, but no one’s at home.” “This guy is destroying the country.” “Put the Twitter away.” President Trump is facing Republican challengers to his re-election campaign. Joe Walsh, Bill Weld and Mark Sanford. They don’t have much of a chance at securing their party’s nomination, but primary challenges can lead to problems for the incumbent. So who’s trying to take Trump on? First up: Joe Walsh. “These are not conventional times. These are urgent times. Let’s be real: These are scary times.” A one-term Tea Party congressman who represented a Chicago suburb from 2011 to 2013. “Pisses me off!” His style? It’s aggressive. Even with his constituents. “Quiet for a minute! Or I’m going to ask you to leave.” He is also known for his offensive tweets. “I wouldn’t call myself a racist, but I would say, John, I’ve said racist things on Twitter.” He’s shared his far-right views on his nationally syndicated radio show. “When he was elected to Congress, he showed up in Washington and refused to play by their rules.” In a recent program, he slammed President Trump for his handling of immigration. “Donald Trump has royally screwed this thing up.” His show is going off the air due to FCC rules on airtime rights for presidential candidates. So why is he running? “All Trump cares about is himself.” “He’s a horrible human being.” “He’s nuts, he’s erratic, he’s incompetent!” Critics have said the same about him. Next: Bill Weld. He was the first to announce his run against President Trump. “I would be ashamed of myself if I didn’t raise my hand and run.” Weld is a lawyer and former Justice Department official. He was the governor of Massachusetts during the ’90s, and has switched party loyalties a few times, endorsing Barack Obama for president in 2008 over John McCain, and then supporting Mitt Romney in 2012. He ran as a libertarian vice presidential candidate in 2016. “I hope to see the Republican Party assume once again the mantle of being the party of Lincoln.” Weld is a fiscal conservative, but socially liberal. He supports abortion rights, same-sex marriage and legalizing marijuana. He’s been campaigning in New Hampshire and Iowa, hoping to best Trump in those early primary contests. “I think we’re in something of an inflection point.” And the former governor of South Carolina, Mark Sanford, is also running. “We need a change in spending, debt and deficits, and we need it now.” He’s a vocal critic of President Trump, and served a total of six terms in the House of Representatives. Ultimately, he lost his seat after a primary challenge by a Trump-backed candidate. His second term as South Carolina governor was stained by a scandal involving an extramarital affair. Trump referenced this scandal in a tweet mocking all three Republican candidates running against him. So what are their chances at winning? Not good. As of now, Trump’s approval rating is very high among Republicans. However, primary challengers in recent decades have shown that they can leave the incumbent wounded in the general election. Bill Weld, the former governor of Massachusetts, was the first Republican to announce that he would run against President Trump for the party’s 2020 nomination. Mark Sanford and Joe Walsh have also joined the race. We look at their political résumés and their strategies.CreditCredit...Kevin Clifford for The New York Times By Annie Karni and Maggie Haberman Sept. 6, 2019 WASHINGTON — The Republican Parties in Arizona, Kansas, Nevada and South Carolina intend to cancel the 2020 presidential primaries in their states, according to three people familiar with their plans, a move aimed at depriving President Trump’s long-shot challengers of chances to build support. The state parties have not formalized their decisions, but Mr. Trump’s challengers denounced the move. Joe Walsh, a former Tea Party congressman from Illinois who announced his candidacy last month, said he planned to fight the move legally and by appealing directly to voters in those states. “It’s something a mob boss would do,” Mr. Walsh said in an interview. “All the times in 2016 when he said the Democrats were rigging the system to elect Hillary? He is actually eliminating elections in certain states, and that’s undemocratic.” William F. Weld, a former governor of Massachusetts who is also challenging Mr. Trump for the party’s nomination, said he found the move concerning but not surprising. “Mr. Trump has not been bashful about his desire to avoid primaries or even elections,” Mr. Weld said. “He spoke admiringly of Xi Jinping getting rid of elections and talks about a third term for himself, which he has to know is not lawful. This is something that would be appropriate in a monarchy.” Other states could follow suit before the Oct. 1 deadline for state parties to file delegate selection plans with the Republican National Committee, campaign officials said. States that do not hold primaries still choose delegates, often by holding a convention. The plans to cancel primaries were first reported on Friday by Politico. The Trump campaign said there was nothing unusual about a move that was intended to help state parties save money on costly primary elections. “These are decisions made entirely by state parties, and there are volumes of historical precedents to support them,” said Tim Murtaugh, a Trump campaign spokesman. “Nevertheless, President Trump will dominate and prevail in whatever contest is placed before him.” Despite the outcry from Republican challengers who so far have gained little traction within a party in which Mr. Trump’s approval rating is consistently in the high 80s, blocking presidential primaries in some states is not unusual when an incumbent is running for re-election, officials said. The Trump campaign pointed out that in 1992, when President George Bush was seeking re-election, Republicans canceled primaries in eight states, and in 2004, when President George W. Bush was running again, they canceled 10. The campaign also pointed out that in 1996, when President Bill Clinton was running for a second term, Democrats canceled primaries in eight states, and in 2012, when President Barack Obama was running, they canceled 10. “Whether or not to hold a presidential primary is a decision made by our state executive committee every four years,” said Drew McKissick, the chairman of the South Carolina Republican Party. “There is strong precedent on the part of both parties to not hold a primary when they control the White House.” Mr. Weld acknowledged the precedent but said the Trump campaign was taking it a step further. “This year, the Trump people tried to cancel the first-in-the-nation primary in New Hampshire,” he said. “They did not succeed, but it shows you the lengths it will go to.” But with the potential for more Republicans to enter the race — Mark Sanford, former governor and congressman from South Carolina, has been toying with a run — political strategists said there was also a case for the White House to confront the challengers head-on. “Our policy in the past has always been, you’re an incumbent president, you have certain advantages and you’ll probably be nominated again, but go out and win it,” said Ed Rollins, the national campaign director for President Ronald Reagan’s 1984 re-election effort. For a year, Mr. Trump’s advisers have made moves to block any challenger from gaining traction, saying that incumbents who have faced debilitating primaries have gone on to lose in the general election, as President Jimmy Carter did in 1980 after a strong challenge from Senator Edward M. Kennedy. David Axelrod, who was President Barack Obama’s chief strategist in the 2012 re-election campaign, said that “obviously, any incumbent president works to forestall a primary challenge.” “But cancellation of them?” he added, “I don’t remember that being fundamental to our strategy. And I’m not sure that it bespeaks a great deal of confidence.” Our 2020 Election Guide Updated April 26, 2020 The Latest Joseph R. Biden Jr. has been forced to adapt his campaign style as he attempts to win the presidency without leaving his house. Coronavirus Election Calendar As the coronavirus outbreak upends the 2020 campaign, several states have postponed their primary elections. We’re keeping track here. Keep Up With Our Coverage Get an email recapping the day’s news Download our mobile app on iOS and Android and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts Listen to our podcast, The Field, on Apple Podcasts and Spotify AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions