https://www.nytimes.com/by/alexander-burns
Alexander Burns - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Today’s Paper AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Alexander Burns Alexander Burns is a national political correspondent for The New York Times, covering elections and political power across the country. Mr. Burns was one of the lead reporters covering Donald Trump’s presidential campaign in 2016, after coming to The Times in 2015 as a political correspondent for the Metro desk. Before joining The Times, Mr. Burns was a reporter and editor at Politico, where he covered the 2012 presidential election. Mr. Burns is a graduate of Harvard College, where he edited the Harvard Political Review. AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Latest Search Search Clear this text input Justin Amash Moves Toward a Third-Party Bid for President Mr. Amash, an independent congressman from Michigan who left the Republican Party last year, said he was exploring running as a Libertarian, adding new volatility to the race. By Jonathan Martin and Alexander Burns A Candidate in Isolation: Inside Joe Biden’s Cloistered Campaign Walled off from voters in a distinctive kind of lockdown, Mr. Biden has developed a routine, of sorts, as he seeks the presidency from his basement. By Alexander Burns, Shane Goldmacher and Katie Glueck Jay Inslee Endorses Biden, Citing Private Conversations on Climate Policy The governor of Washington State, one of the Democratic Party’s most prominent environmentalists, urged progressives to get on board with the presumptive presidential nominee’s campaign. By Alexander Burns Biden and Cuomo: Friends, Allies and Supporting Players No Longer A personal friendship has grown into a crucial political alliance as the two men have emerged as pillars of the Democratic Party in a national crisis. By Alexander Burns Biden vs. Trump: The General Election Is Here, and Transformed The coronavirus crisis means many questions remain about how the 2020 race will proceed, but the top of the ticket is now clear. By Alexander Burns and Jonathan Martin Bernie Sanders Drops Out of 2020 Democratic Race for President Mr. Sanders, a democratic socialist making his second run for the White House, withdrew after a series of losses to Joseph R. Biden Jr., who emerges as the presumptive nominee for the general election. By Sydney Ember Voting in Wisconsin During a Pandemic: Lines, Masks and Plenty of Fear Wisconsin’s primary showed an electoral system stretched to the breaking point by the coronavirus crisis, as people weighed the health risks against their desire to vote. By Astead W. Herndon and Alexander Burns How Will Joe Biden Find His Joe Biden? Joe Biden and his associates are consulting allies, Eric Holder and Barack Obama as he weighs his options — including a woman of color — for the Democratic candidate for vice president. By Katie Glueck, Alexander Burns and Jonathan Martin Joe Biden Is Trying to Be Heard on the Virus. Can He Break Through? As President Trump holds daily briefings, Mr. Biden has kept a low profile, worrying Democrats who feel the president needs to be challenged more robustly. By Thomas Kaplan and Alexander Burns How It All Came Apart for Bernie Sanders The Sanders campaign appeared on the brink of a commanding lead in the Democratic race. But a series of fateful decisions and internal divisions have left him all but vanquished. By Alexander Burns and Jonathan Martin Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Follow Elsewhere alexburnsNYTtwitter page for alexburnsNYT Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions