https://www.nytimes.com/by/matt-flegenheimer
Matt Flegenheimer - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Today’s Paper Matt Flegenheimer Matt Flegenheimer is a reporter covering national politics. Mr. Flegenheimer started at The Times in 2011 on the Metro desk covering transit, City Hall and campaigns. He is a graduate of the University of Pennsylvania and a lifelong New Yorker. AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Latest Search Search Clear this text input Political Memo Trump’s Disinfectant Remark Raises a Question About the ‘Very Stable Genius’ The president has often said he is exceptionally smart. His recent suggestion about injecting disinfectants was not. By Matt Flegenheimer News Analysis What if the Most Important Election of Our Lifetimes Was the Last One? Wisconsin voters may have risked their health to make it to the polls in a pandemic. But lately, it’s feeling as though 2016, not 2020, remains the most pivotal political moment. By Matt Flegenheimer What the ‘Cuomo 2020’ Fantasy Says About 2020 Reality Daily briefings during the crisis in New York have given Gov. Andrew Cuomo a captive audience, and a growing fan base. But he has made it clear that he’s not going anywhere. By Matt Flegenheimer Campaign Memo Is All of 2020 Postponed? Primary elections are being pushed back. The Olympics are officially in 2021. The election-year calendar seemed set in stone and now it is up in the air. By Matt Flegenheimer News Analysis Are Voters ‘Essential Personnel’ During a Pandemic? Participating in a healthy democracy isn’t supposed to be at odds with staying healthy. Today it is. By Matt Flegenheimer Biden and Sanders Assume Fighting Stances, a Healthy 6 Feet Apart The crisis brought them together for an unusual debate. And the debate highlighted their distance. By Matt Flegenheimer and Sydney Ember News Analysis The 2020 Campaign Is Over. The Coronavirus Campaign Just Started. Politics is personal. So what happens when people can’t be near one another? By Matt Flegenheimer News Analysis Bernie Sanders Made a Big Concession Speech. Just Not the Usual Kind. In a stark moment of political de-escalation, Mr. Sanders signaled that he wants to press Joe Biden on issues but may not want to fight to the bitter end like he did against Hillary Clinton in 2016. By Alexander Burns and Matt Flegenheimer News Analysis Joe Biden Is Poised to Deliver the Biggest Surprise of 2020: A Short, Orderly Primary He has such a thorough hold on the party now that any collapse would probably require a political U-turn as sharp as the one that precipitated his rise. By Matt Flegenheimer and Katie Glueck Bloomberg Greets Public Failure With Public Emotion. He’s Not Used to Either. As he dropped out of the presidential race, the billionaire former mayor of New York confronted a moment he had never quite faced: a big, heaping, public loss. By Matt Flegenheimer Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Follow Elsewhere mattflegtwitter page for mattfleg Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions