https://www.nytimes.com/by/jasmine-c-lee
Jasmine C. Lee - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Today’s Paper Jasmine C. Lee Recent and archived work by Jasmine C. Lee for The New York Times AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Latest Search Search Clear this text input See Which States Are Reopening and Which Are Still Shut Down Some states are starting to lift restrictions put in place to curb the coronavirus pandemic. By Sarah Mervosh and Jasmine C. Lee How Every House Member Voted on the Coronavirus Relief Bill The sweeping legislation passed the House, 363-40, and will allow for free testing, paid sick leave, stronger unemployment benefits and food security assistance. By Jasmine C. Lee Super Tuesday: Live Primary Election Results Get the latest primary election results from California, Texas and 12 other states on March 3. New Hampshire 2020 Primary: Live Results Detailed results and maps from the New Hampshire primary election, the second contest of the 2020 presidential election. Iowa Caucus Results 2020 Detailed results and maps from Iowa, the first contest in the 2020 presidential election. Which Candidates Got the Most Speaking Time in the Democratic Debate Follow along live during the debate. By Weiyi Cai, Jasmine C. Lee and Charlie Smart Which Candidates Got the Most Speaking Time in the Democratic Debate The candidates spent the most time touting their own electability and plans to beat President Trump. By Weiyi Cai, Lauren Leatherby and Jasmine C. Lee How Democrats and Republicans Voted on Trump Impeachment Rules See how each representative voted on the resolution to guide the impeachment inquiry into President Donald J. Trump. By Weiyi Cai, Annie Daniel, Jasmine C. Lee, Denise Lu, Blacki Migliozzi, Alicia Parlapiano and Jugal K. Patel Which Candidates Got the Most Speaking Time in the Democratic Debate Senator Elizabeth Warren and Joseph R. Biden Jr. led the stage of 12 candidates. By Weiyi Cai, Jasmine C. Lee and Jugal K. Patel Which Candidates Got the Most Speaking Time in the Democratic Debate Health care, foreign policy, gun control and race were the dominant issues. By Weiyi Cai, Jasmine C. Lee and Jugal K. Patel Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions