https://www.nytimes.com/by/lisa-lerer
Lisa Lerer - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Today’s Paper AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Lisa Lerer Lisa Lerer is a reporter at The New York Times, covering campaigns, elections and political power. More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Latest Search Search Clear this text input Hillary Clinton Endorses Joe Biden: ‘I Wish He Were President Right Now’ The announcement by the 2016 Democratic presidential nominee follows ones from Barack Obama, Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren as the party tries to show its unity. By Lisa Lerer, Maggie Astor and Sydney Ember On Politics With Lisa Lerer Does the Biden Bump Have More to Do With Trump? Polling in two states that many Democrats assumed were lost shows Joe Biden with a narrow lead over President Trump. But the race is moving toward Democrats for reasons that have very little to do with Mr. Biden. By Lisa Lerer Cuando el trabajo de mamá es el que debe esperar La pandemia ha trastocado el precario equilibrio de las mamás trabajadoras, que se han encontrado refugiadas en los baños de casa o en sus autos mientras intentan conciliar su empleo con las demandas de cuidado familiar. By Jennifer Medina and Lisa Lerer Read in English Opposed to Bailouts, but in This Case Willing to Take One Some conservative nonprofit groups are seeking financial help to weather the coronavirus crisis. Some liberal organizations are putting aside different qualms to make the same request. By Kenneth P. Vogel and Lisa Lerer On Politics With Lisa Lerer Your View of Staying Home We heard thoughts from readers across the country about efforts to reopen states that are currently social distancing to slow the spread of the coronavirus. By Lisa Lerer On Politics With Lisa Lerer Q&A With a Trump Economic Adviser We spoke to Stephen Moore, a member of President Trump’s economic task force, about the risks of reopening, what he’s advising the president and his predictions of a coming “economic civil war.” By Lisa Lerer When Mom’s Zoom Meeting Is the One That Has to Wait “The way we’ve been able to MacGyver a career as a woman is completely under attack by a global pandemic.” By Jennifer Medina and Lisa Lerer Leer en español The Quiet Hand of Conservative Groups in the Anti-Lockdown Protests Groups in a loose coalition have tapped their networks to drive up turnout at recent rallies in state capitals and financed lawsuits, polling and research to combat the stay-at-home orders. By Kenneth P. Vogel, Jim Rutenberg and Lisa Lerer On Politics With Lisa Lerer Trump Exceptionalism What happened to President Trump’s approval ratings? By Lisa Lerer On Politics With Lisa Lerer Big Government or Big Hassle? Democrats believe the pandemic could usher in a broad consensus around the need for more publicly funded programs, but there are some signs that the virus’s political impact could tip the other way. By Lisa Lerer Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Follow Elsewhere llerertwitter page for llerer Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions