https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/12/us/politics/deval-patrick-drops-out.html
Deval Patrick Drops Out of 2020 Presidential Race - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics|Deval Patrick, Latecomer to the 2020 Race, Drops Out https://nyti.ms/2wcizLe Latest Results National Map Delegate Count Election Calendar Who’s Running AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Deval Patrick, Latecomer to the 2020 Race, Drops Out The former Massachusetts governor had a compelling life story and an extensive résumé, but his 11th-hour entry into the Democratic primary hurt him. Deval Patrick, the former governor of Massachusetts, speaking at a Nevada Democratic Party event in Las Vegas in November, the month he entered the presidential race. Credit...Joe Buglewicz for The New York Times By Stephanie Saul and Maggie Astor Feb. 12, 2020 Former Gov. Deval Patrick of Massachusetts dropped out of the Democratic presidential race on Wednesday, just three months after entering it, ending a last-minute campaign that seemed to fizzle out almost as soon as it had begun. Mr. Patrick had hoped to capture delegates in his neighboring state of New Hampshire and to carve away former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s support among black voters in South Carolina. But while Mr. Biden has lost support, Mr. Patrick did not gain any. In the New Hampshire primary on Tuesday, he received less than 0.5 percent of the vote. “I believed and still believe we had a strong case to make for being able to deliver better outcomes,” he said in a message to supporters. “But the vote in New Hampshire last night was not enough for us to create the practical wind at the campaign’s back to go on to the next round of voting.” Mr. Patrick was the third candidate to end his campaign after the New Hampshire primary, following the entrepreneur Andrew Yang and Senator Michael Bennet of Colorado, both of whom dropped out late Tuesday night. In South Carolina, local Democratic officials said that while Mr. Patrick had generated enthusiasm among some older black Democrats, who remembered him as the second black elected governor in history, he had little name recognition among younger voters. And in a significant setback, he failed to secure a spot on the ballot in Michigan, which will hold its primary on March 10 and will be a key battleground if the race is undecided after Super Tuesday, one week earlier. The Michigan Bureau of Elections concluded that Mr. Patrick had entered the race too late to be automatically included on the ballot, and that efforts by his supporters to collect enough signatures had fallen short. The departure of Mr. Patrick, who once served as assistant attorney general for civil rights, leaves just one person of color, Representative Tulsi Gabbard of Hawaii, running in a Democratic primary that began as the most diverse in history. Who’s Running for President in 2020? The field of Democratic presidential candidates has been historically large, but all have dropped out except Joe Biden, the presumptive Democratic nominee to challenge President Trump. Mr. Patrick began his campaign on Nov. 14, reversing his decision a year earlier not to run. By the time he entered, other candidates had a huge head start. Four debates had already passed. He cast himself as the candidate best suited to unite moderates and progressives amid worries that none of the contenders already in the field would be able to build a coalition capable of defeating President Trump. His stump speeches drew from his compelling life story — he grew up in poverty on Chicago’s South Side before ascending to the upper echelons of business and politics. But Mr. Patrick also came to the campaign with some potential baggage, given a growing progressive movement in the Democratic Party that is deeply suspicious of big business. His career included positions as corporate counsel at Texaco and, more recently, as a managing director at Bain Capital, a private equity firm. And, unlike Michael R. Bloomberg, the billionaire former mayor of New York City who was also a latecomer to the race, Mr. Patrick did not have enough of a personal fortune to finance his own campaign. There was also little evidence that he had a donor base large enough to make up for months of lost fund-raising. In his message to supporters on Wednesday, Mr. Patrick expressed irritation at the focus on the timing of his campaign. “Many in the media have noted that I entered the race ‘late,’” he said. “As a direct and limiting consequence, I’ve met many people on the campaign trail who lament how they wished I had entered the race sooner. As I hope you know, I entered this race when I could, and not a moment before I should have. More importantly, I entered the race months before anyone had cast a vote.” Our 2020 Election Guide Updated April 28, 2020 The Latest Hillary Clinton, during a virtual town hall-style event about the impact of the coronavirus on women, announced her support for Joseph R. Biden Jr. Coronavirus Election Calendar As the pandemic upends the 2020 campaign, several states have postponed or canceled their primary elections. We’re keeping track here. Keep Up With Our Coverage Get an email recapping the day’s news Download our mobile app on iOS and Android and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts Listen to our podcast, The Field, on Apple Podcasts and Spotify AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions