https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/31/us/politics/john-delaney-drops-out.html
John Delaney Ends Presidential Campaign After Two and a Half Years - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics|John Delaney Ends Presidential Campaign After Two and a Half Years https://nyti.ms/2OfJKeh Latest Results National Map Delegate Count Election Calendar Who’s Running AdvertisementContinue reading the main story John Delaney Ends Presidential Campaign After Two and a Half Years A billboard for John Delaney in Des Moines. He dropped out of the presidential race on Friday.Credit...Brian Snyder/Reuters By Maggie Astor Jan. 31, 2020 DES MOINES — John Delaney ran one of the longest presidential campaigns in American history, but it’s over now. Mr. Delaney dropped out of the Democratic race on Friday, just three days before the Iowa caucuses, ending a two-and-a-half-year marathon that has spanned almost the entirety of the Trump presidency. Anthony Scaramucci was working in the White House when Mr. Delaney began his campaign. The white supremacist rally in Charlottesville had not happened yet. Robert Mueller’s investigation was less than three months old. Stay up to date on primaries and caucuses. Subscribe to “On Politics,” and we’ll send you a link to the live results. Sign up for our politics newsletter Mr. Delaney announced his candidacy on July 28, 2017, during his third term as a representative from Maryland, and did not pursue re-election in 2018, the better to focus on his quest for the White House. By the time other Democrats began flooding Iowa, he had already visited every county — the theory being that a little-known congressman could become a presidential nominee if he barnstormed the early primary states before anyone else was around to draw voters’ attention. “I think I’m the right person for the job, but not enough people knew who I was or still know who I am,” Mr. Delaney said in August 2018. “The way to solve that problem, it seems to me, is to get in early and just work harder than everyone else.” On Friday, he acknowledged that it hadn’t been enough. He said he had concluded that he would not meet the threshold of 15 percent support needed for viability in the caucuses — at least not in enough precincts to matter — but that he could pull enough support to keep other moderate candidates below the threshold, which he did not want to do. “Particularly these rural counties I went to, I would talk to people in precincts that last time, 2016, 20 people caucused, and I’d be sitting there with two people who I know are going to caucus for me,” he said in an interview on Friday. “I’ve wanted this campaign to be constructive and productive the whole time, and it felt like when I knew that I didn’t have enough support to reach viability in a meaningful way, but I had enough support to pull off from other candidates, I said, well, that’s not very productive.” He said he might endorse someone later in the primary, but would not immediately. He also said he would “absolutely fully support, with everything I’ve got, whoever the Democratic nominee is,” even if it is one of the liberal candidates whose policies he has criticized. Mr. Delaney’s big pitch was bipartisanship, and the time-honored idea that Americans could overcome their bitterest divisions if they had a leader who encouraged them to do so. As more candidates entered and the race shifted sharply to the left, he leaned harder into his self-appointed role as a voice of moderation, nowhere more so than on health care. He proposed automatically enrolling every American in a government-run health care plan, but offering a credit to people who wanted to forfeit that benefit and buy their own insurance instead. He cast it as a compromise measure: a way to guarantee universal coverage without eliminating private insurance. And as the race heated up, he pushed aggressively against “Medicare for all,” calling it unrealistic and bad politics. “I believe the American people do want choices,” he said in 2018. “We’re different than other countries in that regard. We believe in choices, we believe in everyone making their own decisions, so I don’t see why we want to be insisting upon one source of health care for everyone.” Who’s Running for President in 2020? The field of Democratic presidential candidates has been historically large, but all have dropped out except Joe Biden, the presumptive Democratic nominee to challenge President Trump. By June 2019, Mr. Delaney was stuck around 1 percent in the polls, but it was enough to qualify him for the first two Democratic debates. After a muted performance in the first debate, he made the most of the second, logging about the same amount of speaking time as more prominent candidates like Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota. But his numbers did not improve, and he didn’t qualify for later debates. The debate moderators seemed, at times, to regard Mr. Delaney less as his own candidate than as a foil for liberals like Senators Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts. It was at Mr. Delaney, in response to his criticism of “impossible promises” and “fairy-tale economics,” that Ms. Warren directed a memorable line: “I don’t understand why anybody goes to all the trouble of running for president of the United States just to talk about what we really can’t do and shouldn’t fight for.” Mr. Delaney said on Friday that he thought his campaign had brought early attention to criticisms of “Medicare for all” that candidates like former Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., now hammer on the trail. On “this notion of running toward the center, unifying the country,” he said, “I think our campaign made a meaningful difference.” Before he was elected to the House in 2012, Mr. Delaney founded two financial companies and was, at one point, the youngest chief executive on the New York Stock Exchange. Those companies made him one of the wealthiest members of Congress, with an estimated net worth of more than $90 million. He spent millions of those dollars on his own campaign. Our 2020 Election Guide Updated April 28, 2020 The Latest Hillary Clinton, during a virtual town hall-style event about the impact of the coronavirus on women, announced her support for Joseph R. Biden Jr. Coronavirus Election Calendar As the pandemic upends the 2020 campaign, several states have postponed or canceled their primary elections. We’re keeping track here. Keep Up With Our Coverage Get an email recapping the day’s news Download our mobile app on iOS and Android and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts Listen to our podcast, The Field, on Apple Podcasts and Spotify AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions