https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/06/us/politics/julian-castro-endorsement-elizabeth-warren.html
Julián Castro Endorses Elizabeth Warren for President - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics|Julián Castro Endorses Elizabeth Warren for President https://nyti.ms/37E6onS Latest Results National Map Delegate Count Election Calendar Who’s Running AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Julián Castro Endorses Elizabeth Warren for President The move came soon after Mr. Castro ended his own bid for the Democratic presidential nomination, and gives a lift to Ms. Warren’s campaign as it tries to reignite excitement. Julián Castro and Senator Elizabeth Warren spoke after the Democratic presidential debate in Miami in June.Credit...Doug Mills/The New York Times By Astead W. Herndon Published Jan. 6, 2020Updated Jan. 10, 2020 Julián Castro, the former housing secretary whose progressive presidential candidacy did not make significant inroads with Democratic voters but earned plaudits from the party’s left wing, has endorsed Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, offering a possible lift for her candidacy less than one month before the Iowa caucuses. Mr. Castro announced his endorsement on Monday morning, just days after he ended his own bid for the White House. In a statement, Mr. Castro cast Ms. Warren as the logical extension of his campaign’s social-justice-driven message, which seeks to correct inequities through targeted policy proposals. He will campaign with Ms. Warren this week, joining her Tuesday night at a rally at Kings Theatre in Brooklyn. Today I'm proud to endorse @ewarren for president. Elizabeth and I share a vision of America where everyone counts. An America where people⁠—not the wealthy or well-connected⁠—are put first. I'm proud to join her in the fight for big, structural change. pic.twitter.com/xDvMEKqpF3 — Julián Castro (@JulianCastro) January 6, 2020 “There’s one candidate I see who is unafraid to fight like hell to make sure that America’s promise will be there for everyone,” Mr. Castro said in a video announcement released on Twitter. Ms. Warren, he said, “will make sure that no matter where you live in America — or where your family came from in the world, you have a path to opportunity, too.” The endorsement is not a shock to close observers of the Democratic primary race — Mr. Castro and Ms. Warren made no secret of their shared affection for each other — but it formalizes a partnership that could help Ms. Warren reignite excitement at a critical moment. Ms. Warren has fallen from her polling peak in early October, when she was hailed as the race’s ascendant front-runner and the standard-bearer for the party’s progressive wing. National polls now show Ms. Warren firmly in third, behind former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, who has been aided by grass-roots progressive groups and by some high-profile endorsements of his own, including from popular House members like Representatives Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Ilhan Omar of Minnesota. It is unclear whether Mr. Castro’s name carries similar political weight. His presidential candidacy struggled to break through in a significant way, but he led the field on a number of progressive issues, including reparations, border decriminalization and housing inequality. He impressed liberal activist groups like the Working Families Party and the Center for Popular Democracy, even though they formally backed Ms. Warren and Mr. Sanders. Ms. Warren thanked Mr. Castro for his support on Monday, calling him “a powerful voice for bold, progressive change.” During the waning months of his campaign, Mr. Castro was a vocal critic of the primary calendar, pointing to how voters in Iowa and New Hampshire, who hold their nominating contests first, are overwhelmingly white. Ms. Warren has, at times, sidestepped that issue, saying once in South Carolina that she was just “a player in the game on this one.” Our 2020 Election Guide Updated April 28, 2020 The Latest Hillary Clinton, during a virtual town hall-style event about the impact of the coronavirus on women, announced her support for Joseph R. Biden Jr. Coronavirus Election Calendar As the pandemic upends the 2020 campaign, several states have postponed or canceled their primary elections. We’re keeping track here. Keep Up With Our Coverage Get an email recapping the day’s news Download our mobile app on iOS and Android and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts Listen to our podcast, The Field, on Apple Podcasts and Spotify AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions