https://www.nytimes.com/2019/12/01/us/politics/joe-sestak-ends-presidential-campaign.html
Joe Sestak Ends Presidential Campaign - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics|Joe Sestak Ends Presidential Campaign https://nyti.ms/33DkEL5 Latest Results National Map Delegate Count Election Calendar Who’s Running AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Joe Sestak Ends Presidential Campaign Mr. Sestak, a Democrat, entered the race late and walked 105 miles across New Hampshire in search of votes, but he never gained any traction in a crowded field. Joe Sestak announced on Sunday that he was dropping out of the presidential race.Credit...Joe Buglewicz for The New York Times By Maggie Astor Dec. 1, 2019 Representative Joe Sestak of Pennsylvania, a former Navy admiral who made history in 2006 as the highest-ranked military officer elected to Congress, announced on Sunday that he was dropping out of the presidential race. Mr. Sestak, a Democrat, had promoted himself as a candidate with the “global experience” needed to “restore America’s leadership in the world,” with a message focused on the economy and rural communities. Among the centerpieces of his platform were a job training guarantee for employees displaced by technological advances and outsourcing, and a system of public hospitals in underserved areas. But his campaign began late and never got off the ground. He raised less than $500,000, and his polling average in the Democratic primary was 0 percent. “Thank you for this priceless opportunity as I end our campaign together,” Mr. Sestak said in a statement. “Without the privilege of national press, it is unfair to ask others to husband their resolve and to sacrifice resources any longer.” Mr. Sestak, 67, who served two terms in the House before losing a bid for the Senate in 2010, entered the presidential race in June, far later than most other candidates. He said he had delayed his entry while his daughter received treatment for brain cancer. But without national name recognition or billions of dollars in personal wealth, Mr. Sestak was unable to make even small inroads in an impossibly saturated field: 24 candidates when he entered. In October, he walked across New Hampshire — 105 miles in seven days, from Chesterfield to Portsmouth — to try to draw attention to his campaign. In earnest, almost plaintive email missives to supporters, he ticked off the miles, described the scenery and asked for donations. “The rain is pouring, and the wind is blowing, but I’m still walking across New Hampshire,” he wrote on Oct. 16 under a subject line that began, “Walking in your shoes — in a nor’easter.” “I have walked 12 miles so far today — but I’ve got another 6 miles to go, and am just coming up to Purgatory Falls Road,” he wrote. “Will you donate to ensure that as I walk in New Hampshirites’ shoes across the Granite State, I can keep my ads on the air in the Granite State?” It was a tactic he had tried before, in 2015, when he walked across Pennsylvania to open a second campaign for the Senate. It did not work then either. Our 2020 Election Guide Updated April 28, 2020 The Latest Hillary Clinton, during a virtual town hall-style event about the impact of the coronavirus on women, announced her support for Joseph R. Biden Jr. Coronavirus Election Calendar As the pandemic upends the 2020 campaign, several states have postponed or canceled their primary elections. We’re keeping track here. Keep Up With Our Coverage Get an email recapping the day’s news Download our mobile app on iOS and Android and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts Listen to our podcast, The Field, on Apple Podcasts and Spotify AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions