https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/20/us/politics/wayne-messam-2020.html
Wayne Messam Drops Out of 2020 Presidential Race - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics|Wayne Messam Drops Out of 2020 Presidential Race https://nyti.ms/2Ot4n61 Latest Results National Map Delegate Count Election Calendar Who’s Running AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Wayne Messam Drops Out of 2020 Presidential Race Mayor Wayne Messam of Miramar, Fla., dropped out of the presidential race.Credit...Sean Rayford/Getty Images By Maggie Astor Nov. 20, 2019 Wayne Messam, the mayor of Miramar, Fla., has ended a presidential campaign that barely got off the ground. Mr. Messam, 45, announced his decision on Wednesday in a post on Medium. “I jumped in an already crowded field of capable candidates to change the direction of this nation caused by the dysfunction of Washington and the poor leadership of the current presidency,” he said. “I knew the odds were a steep hill to climb but I have always fought for what is right and will continue to break barriers never broken.” Mr. Messam declared his candidacy for the Democratic nomination on March 28, discussing student debt, prescription drug costs and clean air, and telling CNN that he wanted to provide “the leadership that will make these issues a priority and have the political will to solve these issues for the American people.” He touted his background as a son of Jamaican immigrants, a former professional football player, a small-business owner and a mayor. But he did not articulate a vision that distinguished him from the many other candidates in the field, most of them better known and more politically experienced. He rarely registered 1 percent in the polls, and he did not qualify for any of the Democratic debates. [Who’s in? Who’s out? Keep up with the 2020 field with our candidate tracker.] Mr. Messam was one of three sitting mayors to enter the race, along with Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., and Bill de Blasio of New York. (Mr. de Blasio has since dropped out, but his predecessor, Michael R. Bloomberg of New York, appears likely to enter.) He cast that as an advantage, saying that under his leadership, Miramar had grappled with many of the same challenges the country faces: It increased the minimum wage for city workers, declared itself a “safe zone” for undocumented immigrants, sued the Florida government in an effort to overturn a permissive gun law, and pledged to continue to support the Paris climate accords after President Trump rejected them. But the odds for Mr. Messam were always extraordinarily long: Besides his low name recognition, no sitting mayor has ever been elected president. In October, he reported raising just $5 in the third fiscal quarter — an error that his campaign corrected a month later. In an amended report to the Federal Election Commission this week, he said he had actually raised $15,000 — lagging the next-lowest fund-raiser by more than $300,000. Our 2020 Election Guide Updated April 28, 2020 The Latest Hillary Clinton, during a virtual town hall-style event about the impact of the coronavirus on women, announced her support for Joseph R. Biden Jr. Coronavirus Election Calendar As the pandemic upends the 2020 campaign, several states have postponed or canceled their primary elections. We’re keeping track here. Keep Up With Our Coverage Get an email recapping the day’s news Download our mobile app on iOS and Android and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts Listen to our podcast, The Field, on Apple Podcasts and Spotify AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions