https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/24/us/politics/tim-ryan-drops-out.html
Tim Ryan Ends His 2020 Presidential Campaign - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics|Tim Ryan Ends His 2020 Presidential Campaign https://nyti.ms/2W8olXa Latest Results National Map Delegate Count Election Calendar Who’s Running AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Tim Ryan Ends His 2020 Presidential Campaign Representative Tim Ryan of Ohio argued that he could win back white, working-class Midwesterners for Democrats.Credit...Rachel Mummey for The New York Times By Maggie Astor Oct. 24, 2019 Representative Tim Ryan of Ohio dropped out of the presidential race on Thursday, ending a campaign that sought to champion Midwestern manufacturing workers but failed to gain traction. Mr. Ryan’s exit leaves 18 Democrats in the 2020 race. “I wanted to give voice to the forgotten communities that have been left behind by globalization and automation, and I’m proud of this campaign because I believe we’ve done that,” Mr. Ryan said in a video announcing his withdrawal. “While it didn’t work out quite the way we planned, this voice will not be stifled.” I’m announcing today that I am withdrawing from the Presidential campaign. I got into this race in April to really give voice to the forgotten people of our country. I look forward to continuing that fight. Thank you, to everyone who supported this campaign. pic.twitter.com/BT4z3fQ205 — Tim Ryan (@TimRyan) October 24, 2019 He said he would run for re-election to his House seat. Competing in an overflowing field, Mr. Ryan — previously known mostly for challenging Speaker Nancy Pelosi for the House Democratic leadership — never really got a foothold. He qualified for the first two debates in June and July with a handful of 1 percent polling results, but never came close to reaching the higher thresholds that followed. How the Democratic Presidential Field Has Narrowed See how the current Democratic presidential field compares with past cycles. When he entered the race in April, he argued that he could win back the white, working-class Midwesterners who had flipped from Barack Obama to Donald Trump. His House district includes Youngstown and part of Akron, a stretch of northeastern Ohio long reliant on the auto industry, and his platform focused on the damage caused by the decline of traditional manufacturing. One of his central proposals was a large federal investment in renewable energy industries, including electric vehicle construction, to create jobs in the places most affected by that decline. “I’m in a place to really bridge that economic disorientation,” he said in an interview the day he announced his candidacy. “I want a businessperson in Michigan to say, ‘I think Tim Ryan really understands what we need to do around electric vehicles,’ and I want a worker in Michigan going, ‘Yeah, we just lost our job, let’s make electric — that seems like it’s the future.’” He also argued that food and agricultural policy connected a range of disparate issues, including health care costs and climate change. He proposed shifting federal funding from large agribusinesses to local and organic farms, and creating tax credits and grants for grocers and other businesses that served so-called food deserts, areas where healthy food is unavailable or unaffordable. Who’s Running for President in 2020? The field of Democratic presidential candidates has been historically large, but all have dropped out except Joe Biden, the presumptive Democratic nominee to challenge President Trump. After the mass shooting in August in Dayton, Ohio, Mr. Ryan spoke forcefully in favor of gun control, telling CNN that Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader, needed to “get off his ass and do something.” With the advocacy group Moms Demand Action, he led a “caravan” from Ohio to Louisville, Ky., where Mr. McConnell lives. Guns were one of a handful of issues — abortion was another — on which Mr. Ryan notably evolved during his House tenure. He once had an “A” rating from the National Rifle Association, but donated the money he had received from its political action committee to gun control groups after the Las Vegas shooting in 2017. But his central message was always about the economy. Mr. Ryan described the decline of traditional manufacturing not only as the focus of his campaign, but also as its impetus. He often recounted his daughter calling him in tears after a friend’s father lost his job at General Motors and saying, “You have to do something.” So, he liked to say, he did something: He ran for president. Our 2020 Election Guide Updated April 28, 2020 The Latest Hillary Clinton, during a virtual town hall-style event about the impact of the coronavirus on women, announced her support for Joseph R. Biden Jr. Coronavirus Election Calendar As the pandemic upends the 2020 campaign, several states have postponed or canceled their primary elections. We’re keeping track here. Keep Up With Our Coverage Get an email recapping the day’s news Download our mobile app on iOS and Android and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts Listen to our podcast, The Field, on Apple Podcasts and Spotify AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions