https://www.facebook.com/RichardOjeda2020/posts/2329884223911515
Richard Ojeda - Today I want to thank from the bottom of... | Facebook
Jump to Sections of this page Accessibility Help Press alt + / to open this menu Facebook Email or Phone Password Forgot account? Sign Up See more of Richard Ojeda on Facebook Log In orCreate New Account See more of Richard Ojeda on Facebook Log In Forgot account? orCreate New Account Not Now Related Pages WV House Democrats Political Organization Justice Democrats Political Organization WV Senate Democrats Political Organization Only In West Virginia Website Beto O'Rourke Politician Governor Jim Justice Government Official Senator Joe Manchin III Government Official WV Can't Wait & Stephen Smith for Governor Political Candidate WVU Football School Sports Team AFT-West Virginia Government Organization West Virginia University College & University Paula Jean Swearengin Political Candidate Recent Post by Page Richard OjedaYesterday at 5:05 PM Tucker Carlson is an absolute ASS! He is saying this virus is not a...s bad as we think......yet in just a few short weeks we have lost more lives than all of the lives lost during the Vietnam War. See More Richard OjedaApril 26 at 5:30 PMCoronavirus and opening things up. Richard OjedaApril 24 at 10:41 AM Glad to see the AFL-CIO rescind their endorsement of Hutchison. Thi...s man went to them and probably said all the right words but the moment he found himself sitting in the chair he figured he would do what he wanted and screw over the working class! Right to Work is wrong and anyone in any office that supports it cares nothing about the working class citizens. The Republican Party supports Right to Work. Supporting folks in that party will never lead to doing away with it. That’s a FACT! See More English (US) Español Français (France) 中文(简体) العربية Português (Brasil) 한국어 Italiano Deutsch हिन्दी 日本語 Sign Up Log In Messenger Facebook Lite Watch People Pages Page Categories Places Games Locations Marketplace Groups Instagram Local Fundraisers Services About Create Ad Create Page Developers Careers Privacy Cookies Ad Choices Terms Help Settings Activity Log Facebook © 2020