https://www.nytimes.com/by/maggie-astor
Maggie Astor - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Today’s Paper Maggie Astor Maggie Astor is a political reporter for The New York Times. Previously, she was a general assignment reporter on the Express Team and a copy editor. Before coming to The Times, she was a reporter for The Record in New Jersey. She has a degree in political science from Barnard College. AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Latest Search Search Clear this text input Hillary Clinton Endorses Joe Biden: ‘I Wish He Were President Right Now’ The announcement by the 2016 Democratic presidential nominee follows ones from Barack Obama, Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren as the party tries to show its unity. By Lisa Lerer, Maggie Astor and Sydney Ember Nancy Pelosi Endorses Joe Biden The House speaker described the former vice president as “a leader with the humility to seek expertise and science, and the confidence to act upon it.” By Maggie Astor Those We’ve Lost Donald Reed Herring, Brother of Elizabeth Warren, Dies of Coronavirus Mr. Herring, 86, was a career officer in the Air Force, reaching the rank of lieutenant colonel, and flew combat missions in Vietnam. By Maggie Astor Al Gore Endorses Joe Biden for President: ‘This Is Not Complicated’ The climate activist and former vice president announced his support on Earth Day and said, “If you want to start solving the climate crisis, this is not rocket science.” By Maggie Astor As Leaders Urge Face Masks, Their Behavior Muffles the Message The medical guidelines are clear, but it’s not always an easy choice for image-conscious politicians. By Annie Karni and Maggie Astor Elizabeth Warren Endorses Joe Biden: ‘When You Disagree, He’ll Listen’ She became the most high-profile progressive woman in the Democratic Party to expand the former vice president’s appeal among liberal voters. By Maggie Astor and Katie Glueck Barack Obama Endorses Joe Biden for President In a video released on Tuesday, Mr. Obama endorsed his former vice president, saying the country needed a steady leader to combat the coronavirus pandemic. By Maggie Astor and Katie Glueck Grappling With the Impact of Coronavirus: This Week in the 2020 Race Joe Biden tries to break through, Bernie Sanders signals he’s staying in and another Super Tuesday (of sorts) emerges. By Matt Stevens and Maggie Astor Young Voters Know What They Want. But They Don’t See Anyone Offering It. For the first time, millennials and Generation Z have enough electoral clout to seriously compete with their elders. But many feel more disillusioned than empowered. By Maggie Astor Biden Takes Charge as Coronavirus Spreads: This Week in the 2020 Race Joe Biden won all three states that held primary contests on Tuesday, forcing Bernie Sanders to reassess the future of his campaign in a race that has been upended by a public health crisis. By Maggie Astor and Matt Stevens Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Follow Elsewhere MaggieAstortwitter page for MaggieAstor Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions