https://www.nytimes.com/by/sydney-ember
Sydney Ember - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Today’s Paper AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Sydney Ember Sydney Ember is a political reporter for The New York Times based in New York. Before joining the politics team, she was a business reporter covering print and digital media. More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Latest Search Search Clear this text input Hillary Clinton Endorses Joe Biden: ‘I Wish He Were President Right Now’ The announcement by the 2016 Democratic presidential nominee follows ones from Barack Obama, Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren as the party tries to show its unity. By Lisa Lerer, Maggie Astor and Sydney Ember News Analysis The Democratic Establishment Suddenly Loves Bernie Sanders When he was winning primaries, many in the Democratic Party were wary of the Vermont senator. Now, he’s a friend, chess-playing companion and “American original.” By Sydney Ember Bernie Sanders Endorses Joe Biden for President At a moment when Mr. Biden still faces deep skepticism from many younger progressive voters, Mr. Sanders’s support is a major step toward Democratic unity against President Trump. By Sydney Ember and Katie Glueck Examining Tara Reade’s Sexual Assault Allegation Against Joe Biden Ms. Reade, a former Senate aide, has accused Mr. Biden of assaulting her in 1993 and says she told others about it. A Biden spokeswoman said the allegation is false, and former Senate office staff members do not recall such an incident. By Lisa Lerer and Sydney Ember Biden, Seeking Democratic Unity, Reaches Left Toward Sanders’s Ideas Looking to appeal to Bernie Sanders’s supporters, Joe Biden announced proposals to lower the eligibility age for Medicare to 60 and to expand student debt forgiveness programs. By Shane Goldmacher and Sydney Ember News Analysis Where the Promise of Bernie Sanders Goes Now The 2020 campaign was a great moment for his message, less so for him as the messenger. Mr. Sanders and Joe Biden now have to figure out what comes next for an agenda that matters to millions. By Sydney Ember Now Comes the Hard Part for Joe Biden Having become the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, he and his allies are aiming to win over Bernie Sanders’s younger, more liberal voters and unify the party. By Katie Glueck, Shane Goldmacher and Glenn Thrush Bernie Sanders Drops Out of 2020 Democratic Race for President Mr. Sanders, a democratic socialist making his second run for the White House, withdrew after a series of losses to Joseph R. Biden Jr., who emerges as the presumptive nominee for the general election. By Sydney Ember Will Wisconsin Be the Last Stand for Bernie Sanders? If Mr. Sanders suffers another big loss there on Tuesday, it is certain to intensify the growing calls for him to exit the Democratic presidential race. By Sydney Ember Political memo As Coronavirus Crisis Unfolds, Sanders Sees a Moment That Matches His Ideas With the odds of winning long, some Democrats wonder why Bernie Sanders is still in the presidential race. He’s still pushing his agenda, though it’s not clear who’s listening. By Sydney Ember Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Follow Elsewhere melbournecoaltwitter page for melbournecoal Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions