https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/13/us/politics/bernie-sanders-joe-biden-endorsement.html
Sanders Endorses Biden for President in 2020 Race - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics|Bernie Sanders Endorses Joe Biden for President https://nyti.ms/3ekptzJ Latest Results National Map Delegate Count Election Calendar Who’s Running AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Bernie Sanders Endorses Joe Biden for President At a moment when Mr. Biden still faces deep skepticism from many younger progressive voters, Mr. Sanders’s support is a major step toward Democratic unity against President Trump. Senator Bernie Sanders and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. during the Democratic debate in Des Moines in January.Credit...Tamir Kalifa for The New York Times By Sydney Ember and Katie Glueck Published April 13, 2020Updated April 16, 2020 Senator Bernie Sanders endorsed Joseph R. Biden Jr. as the Democratic nominee for president on Monday, adding the weight of his left-wing support to Mr. Biden’s candidacy and taking a major step toward bringing unity to the party’s effort to unseat President Trump in November. The decision by Mr. Sanders to back his former rival is an unmistakable signal to his supporters — who are known for their intense loyalty — that they should do so as well, at a moment when Mr. Biden still faces deep skepticism from many younger progressive voters. In a surprise joint appearance over live-streamed video, the two men revealed a rapprochement forged amid extraordinary circumstances just five days after Mr. Sanders withdrew, a sign of how profoundly the coronavirus pandemic has changed the race. The uncertainty caused by the virus, the vast damage to the American economy and the fervent desire to deprive Mr. Trump of a second term prompted an earlier-than-expected alliance between two ideological rivals, aimed at bringing together disparate factions of the party. “We need you in the White House,” Mr. Sanders said to Mr. Biden. “And I will do all that I can to see that that happens.” Mr. Biden said: “I’m going to need you. Not just to win the campaign, but to govern.” The coalescence behind Mr. Biden will gain even more strength with the backing of Senator Elizabeth Warren, who is expected to endorse him soon, according to people familiar with the matter. There is not any holdup or demand for concessions for her support, these people said. Ms. Warren is the only major former rival yet to endorse the former vice president, though only because she has left the timing of an announcement up to Mr. Biden’s team. The challenge now for Mr. Biden and Mr. Sanders is to create an agenda that hews to Mr. Biden’s relatively moderate policy views, and draws in progressives, but also seems big enough to match the moment in the country. It is a complicated task for both of them: Mr. Biden, who easily won the Wisconsin primary in results announced Monday evening, will have to persuade more Sanders-supporting liberals that he will fight for their interests. Mr. Sanders is essentially committing himself vouching for Mr. Biden or at least bring more of his followers into the Biden camp. Neither man can predict with any assurance how their political alliance will pan out. Already, progressive groups and activists were expressing skepticism about how far Mr. Biden would go to incorporate Mr. Sanders’s followers. “Winning over Senator Sanders is one thing, but Joe Biden shouldn’t think that the work is over,’’ said Evan Weber, political director for the Sunrise Movement, an organization of young climate activists that had endorsed Mr. Sanders. He added, “There is still work to do to win over progressive leaders and young people.” In moving so quickly to embrace more of the policy ideas and political language of Mr. Sanders and the left, Mr. Biden is providing the clearest sign yet that the virus has changed the political equation and the rhythms of the election season. He also has indicated an intention to expand beyond his primary campaign message of restoring the nation and Washington to a pre-Trump era. Progressives have been scathingly critical of that argument, saying that it neglects the many inequities in the economic, health care and immigration systems and in other areas where lower-income people struggled in the Obama era and under past presidents. But at a moment of a presidential campaign when candidates often move to the center, this expanded message could prove perilous if progressives push Mr. Biden to make policy concessions and changes that start to concern more moderate Democrats and independent voters who do not support some planks of a far-reaching liberal agenda. The alliance announced Monday was a sharp departure from the drawn-out, often-acrimonious process of reconciliation between Mr. Sanders and Hillary Clinton in the 2016 presidential race. And it makes good on the promise Mr. Sanders has been making for months: That he would support the eventual Democratic nominee and do everything he could to defeat Mr. Trump, whom he has called “the most dangerous president” in modern times. Former Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and a Biden supporter, said the quick cooperation was a reflection of the friendly personal relationship the two men enjoyed. Mr. Sanders was said to be greatly appreciative that Mr. Biden did not try to rush him out of the race. “A lot of people think it’s old-fashioned, being polite to people, listening to people, paying attention to them,” he said. “It’s still important to people. Personal relationships mean a lot.” Behind the scenes, Biden advisers and allies are already reaching out to former members of the Sanders campaign, according to three people familiar with the discussions, and hope to eventually bring some on board. That news of the endorsement did not leak beforehand was another signal of the growing unity between the campaigns. Only a small group of people on each campaign knew it was happening, according to a person familiar with the discussions. Ms. Warren and Mr. Biden have also spoken multiple times since her exit about policy issues, including the plan that Mr. Biden has developed to respond to the pandemic. At the staff level, Ms. Warren’s chief campaign strategist, Joe Rospars, and Anita Dunn, a senior adviser to Mr. Biden, have been engaged in talks bridging the two camps. Ms. Dunn, along with Ron Klain, another longtime Biden adviser, played a central role in negotiations with the Sanders camp in recent weeks, while a top Sanders political adviser, Jeff Weaver, and campaign manager Faiz Shakir, represented the Vermont senator. The scene on Monday was a striking example of the ways the coronavirus has upended traditional campaigning. In normal times, both men most likely would have appeared onstage together at a rally — or at least done so at an event with more pomp. Instead, they appeared at their homes, as they have been doing for weeks. When Mr. Sanders officially declared his endorsement, Mr. Biden seemed visibly moved. “Oh!” Mr. Biden said, before dropping his head as if he hardly saw it coming. The two men said they would form “task forces” on issues including the economy, education, immigration, health care, criminal justice and climate change. Mr. Biden’s campaign said that the groups would include “policy experts and leaders that represent the diverse viewpoints of the Democratic Party,” and promised updates on the groups’ progress. Two senior Biden advisers, Cristóbal Alex and Symone D. Sanders, who both have relationships in the progressive sphere, have been reaching out to leading liberal organizations, including groups that focus on immigrants’ rights and on climate. And Representative Cedric Richmond, Mr. Biden’s campaign co-chairman, has spoken with his counterpart on the Sanders campaign, Representative Ro Khanna, about the need to unite the party. Still, Mr. Sanders’s endorsement surprised many of the progressive grass-roots groups that had endorsed his candidacy and that are struggling with the prospect of the more moderate Mr. Biden becoming the nominee. Some worried that it undercut the leverage Mr. Sanders might have to persuade Mr. Biden to make policy concessions. “We want those task forces to be given real power in the campaign and in the party apparatus,” Mr. Weber, of the Sunrise Movement, said. “Not just gestures but real commitments.” It is unclear how much sway Mr. Sanders would have over Mr. Biden’s campaign decisions, including his potential cabinet or vice-presidential selections. In a Friday interview with PBS NewsHour, Mr. Sanders acknowledged a preference for Mr. Biden to pick a more progressive running mate but said he had not weighed in on the choice. “Joe is going to have to make that decision himself,” Mr. Sanders said. Throughout the campaign, Mr. Sanders had often referred to Mr. Biden as his “friend” and the two men have a personal relationship that has remained intact. Even as the field dwindled, Mr. Sanders was reluctant to attack Mr. Biden directly and largely did so only for a brief spell near the end of his campaign that included the last debate — and only on policy. That comity was on display Monday in an appearance that at times resembled a slapdash buddy skit, with levity that offered a brief respite from the seriousness of a national health crisis. The two men seemed to delight in talking to each other — bantering away on subjects that generally sounded as if they had been cleared with campaign aides. “Do you have any questions for me, Bernie?” Mr. Biden said. “I did, Joe,” he said. Both gushed their effusive praise. Near the end, when Mr. Biden asked Mr. Sanders if there was anything else he wanted to do, Mr. Sanders quipped that they should “play some chess.” “I’d like to play chess!” Mr. Biden said. But Mr. Sanders was out of moves. As Mr. Biden’s live stream drew to a close, a message popped up on his one-time rival’s video screen: “You are muted by host.” Shane Goldmacher and Astead W. Herndon contributed reporting. Our 2020 Election Guide Updated April 28, 2020 The Latest Hillary Clinton, during a virtual town hall-style event about the impact of the coronavirus on women, announced her support for Joseph R. Biden Jr. Coronavirus Election Calendar As the pandemic upends the 2020 campaign, several states have postponed or canceled their primary elections. We’re keeping track here. Keep Up With Our Coverage Get an email recapping the day’s news Download our mobile app on iOS and Android and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts Listen to our podcast, The Field, on Apple Podcasts and Spotify AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions