https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/27/us/politics/Pelosi-endorses-Biden.html
Nancy Pelosi Endorses Joe Biden for President - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics|Nancy Pelosi Endorses Joe Biden https://nyti.ms/35bcPio Latest Results National Map Delegate Count Election Calendar Who’s Running AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Nancy Pelosi Endorses Joe Biden The House speaker described the former vice president as “a leader with the humility to seek expertise and science, and the confidence to act upon it.” Video transcript Back bars 0:00/1:19 -1:19 transcript ‘He Knows How to Get the Job Done,’ Pelosi Says, Endorsing Biden In a video released on Monday, Speaker Nancy Pelosi became the latest prominent Democrat to endorse former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. for president. Today, I am proud to endorse Joe Biden for president of the United States because he will be an extraordinary president. He knows how to get the job done. When our nation faced the great recession, it was Joe Biden who led the implementation and the accountability of the Recovery Act, helping create and save millions of jobs. When the Democratic Congress was passing the Affordable Care Act, Joe Biden was a partner for progress in the White House, and also championed the “Cancer Moonshot.” When the Trump administration launched its campaign to destroy every last benefit and protection of the A.C.A., Joe Biden has been with us every step of the way to protect Americans’ quality affordable health care. And as we face coronavirus, Joe has been a voice of reason and resilience, with a clear path to lead us out of this crisis. I want to tell you about the Joe Biden I’ve seen working behind the scenes, hammering out solutions for the American people. A leader with the humility to seek expertise in science, and the confidence to act upon it. With a Democratic majority in the House and Senate, we will deliver bold progress for the people when we have President Joe Biden in the White House. In a video released on Monday, Speaker Nancy Pelosi became the latest prominent Democrat to endorse former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. for president.CreditCredit...Pete Marovich for The New York Times By Maggie Astor Published April 27, 2020Updated April 28, 2020 Nancy Pelosi, the speaker of the House, endorsed Joseph R. Biden Jr. on Monday as the Democratic Party continued to coalesce around its presumptive presidential nominee. Mr. Biden now has the formal support of the party’s last president, Barack Obama; two of its most prominent progressives, Senators Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren; two previous presidential nominees, John Kerry and Al Gore; and its leader in the House, Ms. Pelosi. Representative Pramila Jayapal of Washington, a co-chairwoman of the Congressional Progressive Caucus and a prominent surrogate for Mr. Sanders, also endorsed Mr. Biden on Monday. In a video released on Monday morning, Ms. Pelosi drew on her years of working with Mr. Biden behind the scenes on legislation when he was Mr. Obama’s vice president, describing Mr. Biden as “a leader with the humility to seek expertise and science, and the confidence to act upon it.” “When our nation faced the Great Recession, it was Joe Biden who led the implementation — and the accountability — of the Recovery Act, helping create and save millions of jobs. When the Democratic Congress was passing the Affordable Care Act, Joe Biden was a partner for progress in the White House and also championed the cancer moonshot,” she said. Ms. Pelosi’s chief focus in the 2020 campaign has been on keeping the House in Democratic hands and helping her members, particularly vulnerable freshman, win re-election in November. While the primary was still competitive, she had remained carefully neutral, preserving her ability to try to distance her caucus from the eventual nominee if she thought it necessary. But she also had words of praise for Mr. Biden, saying “I’m not counting Joe Biden out” after his early losses in Iowa and New Hampshire. As many of her rank-and-file members fretted in February about the down-ballot implications of nominating Mr. Sanders, then the front-runner, Ms. Pelosi said she believed Democrats would “wholeheartedly support” whomever the party nominated. At the same time, she was laying the groundwork to distinguish House Democrats from Mr. Sanders if he won the nomination, unveiling a sweeping alternative to “Medicare for all” and telling reporters, “It is not unusual for a party platform or the candidates for president to have their own agenda that they would put forth, and it’s not unusual for the House of Representatives to have its agenda as well.” The path to victory for Democrats, she said in February, was with “a message of a bold progressive agenda that is mainstream and non-menacing.” That is roughly how Mr. Biden has been trying to present his agenda. Our 2020 Election Guide Updated April 28, 2020 The Latest Hillary Clinton, during a virtual town hall-style event about the impact of the coronavirus on women, announced her support for Joseph R. Biden Jr. Coronavirus Election Calendar As the pandemic upends the 2020 campaign, several states have postponed or canceled their primary elections. We’re keeping track here. Keep Up With Our Coverage Get an email recapping the day’s news Download our mobile app on iOS and Android and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts Listen to our podcast, The Field, on Apple Podcasts and Spotify AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions