https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/22/us/politics/jay-inslee-endorses-biden.html
Jay Inslee Endorses Joe Biden - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics|Jay Inslee Endorses Biden, Citing Private Conversations on Climate Policy https://nyti.ms/2Y2dEIN The Coronavirus Outbreak debugid:204 • Latest Updates Maps and Tracker New Symptom List Markets Life at Home Newsletter AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Jay Inslee Endorses Biden, Citing Private Conversations on Climate Policy The governor of Washington State, one of the Democratic Party’s most prominent environmentalists, urged progressives to get on board with the presumptive presidential nominee’s campaign. Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington at a coronavirus briefing in Olympia this month. He said in an interview that he was confident Joseph R. Biden Jr. was “willing to aim faster and higher” on climate policy. Credit...Ted S. Warren/Associated Press By Alexander Burns April 22, 2020 Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington State, one of the Democratic Party’s most prominent environmentalists, endorsed Joseph R. Biden Jr. for president on Wednesday after extensive private conversations in which Mr. Biden signaled he would make fighting climate change a central cause of his administration. Mr. Inslee, who mounted a long-shot presidential campaign of his own last year, said in an interview that he had spoken repeatedly to Mr. Biden in recent weeks and came away convinced that the former vice president was preparing to greatly expand his policy proposals for reducing carbon emissions and promoting renewable energy. Though he and Mr. Biden clashed early in the primary season, Mr. Inslee said he was confident that Mr. Biden was “willing to aim faster and higher” on climate policy than he had indicated at that stage. Mr. Inslee said his aides were consulting with Mr. Biden’s campaign about new components to his environmental agenda. “I am convinced, beyond the shadow of a doubt, that this will be a major driving force of his administration,” Mr. Inslee said. “I think what you’re going to see is an increased commitment to some shorter-term actions and he’s been very open to that.” Mr. Inslee’s endorsement comes as little surprise, given Mr. Biden’s status as the presumptive Democratic nominee. The Biden campaign has rolled out a series of valuable endorsements over the past few weeks, a phase of the campaign in which public activity has been strictly limited by the coronavirus outbreak. Last week, endorsement videos from former President Barack Obama and Senators Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren helped Mr. Biden stir Democratic enthusiasm and raise money during a news cycle overwhelmed by the pandemic. Latest Updates: Coronavirus Outbreak in the U.S. Trump would like schools to reopen before the summer. Few states seem to be considering it. The U.S. surpasses 1 million known coronavirus cases. A mask for thee, but not for me: Pence declines a face covering at the Mayo Clinic. See more updates Updated 4m ago More live coverage: Global Markets New York Mr. Inslee has been among the most prominent governors confronting the crisis, ordering early lockdowns and other restrictions that have helped limit the damage in Washington State to a fraction of the ruin inflicted on New York, where public officials acted somewhat more slowly. The emergency has also brought Mr. Inslee into conflict with President Trump, whom Mr. Inslee has criticized for his handling of the outbreak. Mr. Trump has answered Mr. Inslee’s criticism with heated personal and partisan attacks, calling him a “snake.” But unlike some governors who have tried to mute their differences with Mr. Trump while they are lobbying his administration for help in the fight against coronavirus, Mr. Inslee made plain in the interview that he intended to speak bluntly about what he saw as Mr. Trump’s deficiencies. He said the president had shown “no empathy for anyone but himself” and had “abused even Republican governors” who expressed dissatisfaction with the federal government’s performance. “I’ve had to deal with a totally dishonest person in the White House,” Mr. Inslee said, predicting that Mr. Biden would be a better partner for governors in both parties. In addition to the endorsement, Mr. Inslee participated in another ritual of Mr. Biden’s lockdown-era campaign: On Tuesday, he recorded an episode for Mr. Biden’s podcast, “Here’s the Deal,” which has previously featured conversations with Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and Gov. Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan. On the podcast, Mr. Biden alluded to numerous private conversations about climate with Mr. Inslee, as well as with former Vice President Al Gore; in his view, Mr. Biden said, confronting the climate crisis represented an enormous opportunity for the United States to create jobs “generating a fundamentally green infrastructure.” Mr. Inslee’s vote of confidence in Mr. Biden comes at a timely moment, on the 50th occasion of Earth Day and as the former vice president continues to face grumbling on the left about the scope of his announced climate policies. While Mr. Biden has embraced a broad agenda to limit emissions, progressives have long viewed his stated timeline — reducing emissions to net zero by 2050 — as dangerously slow. During one of the debates last year, Mr. Inslee was among those who challenged Mr. Biden’s plans as “too little, too late.” But Mr. Biden has shown signs recently of raising his governing ambitions across the board, not only on climate, even adopting some of the messages of former rivals like Mr. Sanders and Ms. Warren in arguing that the next president will have to seek much larger social and economic change to help the country recover from the current crisis. Mr. Inslee, who is seeking a third term as governor this November, expressed little sympathy for reluctant liberals, urging them to get on board with Mr. Biden as quickly as possible. Whatever their preferences during primary season, Mr. Inslee said, Democrats should recognize that Mr. Biden’s candidacy represents “a chance for the survival of life as we know it.” “The faster we get in harness together, the likelier it is we will remove a man who has dedicated himself to deceit and rejection of science,” he said. Mr. Inslee allowed that some of his enthusiasm for Mr. Biden stemmed from factors besides policy, describing the former vice president as open-minded and easy to connect with — common sentiments among Mr. Biden’s former rivals who have aligned themselves with unusual speed behind a candidate who not long ago seemed to be on the brink of defeat. “I just enjoy talking to Joe Biden,” Mr. Inslee said. “Maybe that’s one of the reasons he’s been successful as a leader.” The Coronavirus Outbreak Frequently Asked Questions and Advice Updated April 11, 2020 When will this end? This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days. How can I help? The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.) What should I do if I feel sick? If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. Should I wear a mask? The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. How do I get tested? If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. How does coronavirus spread? It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face. Is there a vaccine yet? No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away. What makes this outbreak so different? Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard. What if somebody in my family gets sick? If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently. Should I stock up on groceries? Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home. Can I go to the park? Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea. Should I pull my money from the markets? That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years. What should I do with my 401(k)? Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions