https://www.nytimes.com/topic/person/monica-s-lewinsky
Monica S. Lewinsky - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Monica S. Lewinsky Today’s Paper AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Times Topics Monica S. Lewinsky Latest Search Search Clear this text input Linda Tripp, Key Figure in Clinton Impeachment, Dies at 70 She gave over her secretly recorded conversations with Monica Lewinsky to an independent prosecutor, a pivot point in his investigation of the president. By Anita Gates and Katharine Q. Seelye Bill Clinton Explains Monica Lewinsky Affair as ‘Managing My Anxieties’ Mr. Clinton was asked about the scandal for the Hulu documentary series “Hillary.” By Neil Vigdor Robert Ray Wanted to Indict Clinton. He Thinks Trump Will Be Vindicated. As Ken Starr’s successor, Mr. Ray ended up striking a deal that prevented Mr. Clinton from being prosecuted. By Eileen Sullivan Ken Starr Returns to the Impeachment Fray, This Time for the Defense The independent counsel whose investigation resulted in a Senate trial for President Bill Clinton has joined the team defending President Trump. By Peter Baker Plato Cacheris, Washington ‘Super Lawyer’ in Headline Cases, Dies at 90 If there was a national scandal — Watergate, Iran-contra, “Monica-gate,” the Snowden affair — he got the call. His deal making was legend. By Robert D. McFadden Bill Clinton-Monica Lewinsky Scandal Is Next for ‘American Crime Story’ Monica Lewinsky will be a producer on the third season of Ryan Murphy’s popular television series. By John Koblin Are You Secretly a Millennial? Xennials live in the cusp between Gen X and millennial. We can sort you with this quiz. Jacob A. Stein, an Eminence Among Washington Lawyers, Dies at 94 He won a rare Watergate acquittal, gained immunity for Monica Lewinsky to testify against President Clinton and, in the Reagan years, investigated Edwin Meese. By Sam Roberts Relations What happened to all the sex in pop culture? White House Memo At White House, Empty Desks and Unpaid Bills as Trump Shows No Sign of Relenting The pain of the partial government shutdown bit into all corners of America — even the White House, where there is often very little sympathy for those whose job it is to keep Washington running. By Katie Rogers Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions