https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948&referrer=mat_click_id%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948%26link_click_id%3D722930677036718082
‎The New York Times on the App Store
Global Nav Open Menu Global Nav Close Menu Apple Shopping Bag + Search apple.com Cancel Apple Mac iPad iPhone Watch TV Music Support Shopping Bag + Cancel App Store Preview This app is available only on the App Store for iPhone and iPad. The New York Times 12+ Breaking National & World News The New York Times Company #1 in Magazines & Newspapers 4.6, 29.2K Ratings Free Offers In-App Purchases Screenshots iPhone iPad Description Top stories See the events shaping the world. Morning and Evening Briefings Begin and end your day informed. Podcasts Listen to audio series including “The Daily.” For You Follow the topics that interest you most. Opinion Read political, social and personal commentary. Push notifications Get alerts on the topics you choose. Mini Crossword Enjoy wordplay, every day. Understand the world through award-winning independent journalism, expert reporting and multimedia storytelling with the New York Times app. iPhone and iPad Features: • News Alerts: Get notified of major developing stories and tailor alerts to topics of interest. • Morning and Evening Briefings: Start and end your day with daily digests compiled by Times journalists. • For You: Explore more of what you love, and discover new topics of interest. • Podcasts: Listen to audio series including “The Daily” and “Modern Love.” • The Mini Crossword: Enjoy wordplay every day with the daily Mini Crossword. • Today’s Paper: Find all the stories exactly as they are in the print edition. • Experience NYT stories through innovative formats, like augmented reality. • Save articles to read later on any of your devices. • Multitasking: On an iPad? Get caught up on the day’s headlines while working in other apps. Apple Watch Features: • Catch up quickly by reading today’s headlines. • Receive alerts when big news breaks. The New York Times app is free to download, and all users can access a sampling of articles per month, from any section. Subscribers get full access to over 25 sections, plus unlimited access to nytimes.com. Digital Subscription Options: • Basic - unlimited digital access for $14.99 per month or $129.99 per year (save over 25%). Cancel anytime. • All Access - unlimited digital access, plus access to the NYT Crossword, NYT Cooking, and one bonus digital subscription for $24.99 per month. Cancel anytime. Your payment will be charged to your iTunes account at confirmation of purchase. Your subscription will automatically renew each month or year 24-hours before the end of the current period, and your credit card will be charged through your iTunes account unless auto-renew is turned off at least 24-hours before the end of the current period. You can turn off auto-renew at any time from your iTunes account settings. Any unused portion of a free trial period, if offered, will be forfeited when you purchase a subscription to that publication, where applicable. Privacy Policy: https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html Terms of Service: https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html Questions Concerns? Please contact us at ios@nytimes.com or (800) 591-9233. We respond to every inquiry. * Promotional offers for new subscribers only. Not valid for Digital Access $129.99 per year subscription option. Smartphone and tablet apps are not supported on all devices. NYTimes.com + Smartphone Apps, NYTimes.com + Tablet Apps and Digital Access subscriptions do not include e-reader editions. Prices shown are in U.S. dollars. Other restrictions apply. What’s New Version History Apr 21, 2020 Version 9.22.0 The latest version contains minor bug fixes and general performance improvements. Please send your questions and feedback to: ios@nytimes.com. Ratings and Reviews See All 4.6 out of 5 29.2K Ratings 29.2K Ratings Msjm21 , 02/29/2020 Love the app, miss most popular I am a product director on another large scale mobile app, and I love the NYT app. It’s visually appealing and thoughtful and I appreciate so many of the changes you guys have made throughout the past years. My only wish, is that you stop moving the “most popular” articles section. First it was a carousel (my favorite), then you limited it to a list view of only 4, then it was moved to a completely different part of your navigation and I had to search for it, and now it’s gone. I can’t find it. I enjoy seeing what’s most read for several reasons and am bummed it’s gone. If I could make one request, please bring this back to your timeline. An additional comment - I find your newer navigation confusing. You’ve essentially moved the whole navigation under “browse”, not an immediately obvious title for this. And “for you” is not relevant to me, what I read, or what I do. I literally play spelling bee every, single, day and hate that I have to scroll all the way to the bottom of timeline (while it’s updating which pushes me up the timeline, to only have to scroll down more) to get to it. If “for you” was really stuff I use, it should have spelling bee but it doesn’t. This is the only app review I’ve ever written, i promise. And I’m writing it more because I love the content and the app but wish these few things could change. Leaving feedback because I’m hoping it’s helpful! 1jdunk , 04/14/2020 Wanted to love this app. Hated it. This app loaded my phone with so much adware and tracking software that my phone would frequently crash and lag. I was confused about why my phone had gotten so much slower and less stable and then I realized theses problems only surfaced after I had downloaded the NYT app. I deleted the app and bookmarked NYT’s mobile site to my home screen instead and now the problems are gone. NYT is pulling some really shady dat collection and advertising tricks with this app, and the UI is terrible to boot. This app also has a bug that makes it very easy to accidentally click on ads. This is annoying because it minimizes the article I’m reading and redirects me to the webpage of whatever company’s ad I just accidentally clicked on. I really hope this is just a bug, and that the developer will fix it, but I can’t help but think that this “bug” positively influences the developer’s revenue for ad’s that are paid for on a pay per click basis, and that at best this means they have no incentive to lose money by fixing it, and at worst they are aware of it and using it to fraudulently extract extra revenue from their advertisers. Overall, I’m very disappointed with the experience this app provides. The quality of NYT’s content is well worth the $1/week subscription cost, but it isn’t worth all of the problems this app causes and the personal data/privacy concerns that come with this app are worrying to say the least. Software Guy , 01/19/2020 Great Content, Terrible Ad Tracking UPDATE: I tried the app again, thinking maybe i was being too harsh. Nope, the advertisements are actually worse now. meaning, there are more ads now then there were when i wrote the below review. I actually showed this to a friend who was amazed this is a paid subscription. The same animated ad is inserted between every 3 paragraphs. Honestly, I would pay MORE if the ads would just go away altogether as they completely take-away from the reading experience. Just charge me more so I can read the news in peace please. Original Review: As mentioned by many others, the content is the best in the world. Unfortunately it is served alongside insidious ad tracking that follows one from the web and into the app. Expect to see the same ad inserted between every 3rd paragraph, over and over and over. I hope you liked that book you searched for online because you will see ads for it all day using this app. Creepy, and unnecessary for a newspaper, especially one that writes article against "super cookies and advertising platforms". This is a paid subscription, not a free product. I expect no ads, or at the very least, less of them. I'm keeping my subscription to the best newspaper in the world, but i'm deleting this app and will read online, where I can block the ads and receive a much better reading experience, which of course is the point. Subscriptions See All Basic Unlimited article access. Free Trial All Access Basic + NYT Crossword, Cooking, 1 bonus sub. Free Trial Information Seller The New York Times Company (iDP) Size 110.1 MB Category News Compatibility Requires iOS 12.0 or later. Compatible with iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch. Languages English Age Rating 12+ Infrequent/Mild Sexual Content and Nudity Infrequent/Mild Alcohol, Tobacco, or Drug Use or References Infrequent/Mild Mature/Suggestive Themes Copyright © 2017, The New York Times Company Price Free In-App Purchases All Digital Access $34.99 NYTimes.com + Smartphone App $14.99 Times Insider $44.99 more Developer Website App Support License Agreement Privacy Policy Developer Website App Support License Agreement Privacy Policy Supports Family Sharing With Family Sharing set up, up to six family members can use this app. More By This Developer See All New York Times Crossword Games 纽约时报中文网 News NYT Cooking Food & Drink T Brand Studio AR - Augmented Reality Entertainment NYTLive Conferences Business NYT Food Festival Entertainment You May Also Like See All NPR News CNN: Breaking US & World News News Washington Post News BBC News News The Wall Street Journal. News Fox News: Live Breaking News News More ways to shop: Find an Apple Store or other retailer near you. Or call 1-800-MY-APPLE. Choose your country or region Copyright © 2020 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Terms of Use Sales and Refunds Legal Site Map