https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1968_United_States_presidential_election
1968 United States presidential election - Wikipedia
1968 United States presidential election From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search For related races, see 1968 United States elections. 1968 United States presidential election ← 1964 November 5, 1968 1972 → 538 members of the Electoral College 270 electoral votes needed to win Turnout 60.9%[1] 1.0 pp Nominee Richard Nixon Hubert Humphrey George Wallace Party Republican Democratic American Independent Home state New York[a] Minnesota Alabama Running mate Spiro Agnew Edmund Muskie Curtis LeMay Electoral vote 301 191 46 States carried 32 13 + DC 5 Popular vote 31,783,783 31,271,839 9,901,118 Percentage 43.4% 42.7% 13.5% Presidential election results map. Red denotes states won by Nixon/Agnew, blue denotes those won by Humphrey/Muskie, and orange denotes those won by Wallace/LeMay. Numbers indicate electoral votes cast by each state. President before election Lyndon B. Johnson Democratic Elected President Richard Nixon Republican The 1968 United States presidential election was the 46th quadrennial presidential election, held on Tuesday, November 5, 1968. The Republican nominee, former vice president Richard Nixon, defeated the Democratic nominee, incumbent vice president Hubert Humphrey. Analysts have argued the election of 1968 was a major realigning election as it permanently disrupted the New Deal coalition that had dominated presidential politics since 1932. Incumbent president Lyndon B. Johnson had been the early front-runner for the Democratic Party's nomination, but withdrew from the race after narrowly winning the New Hampshire primary. Eugene McCarthy, Robert F. Kennedy, and Humphrey emerged as the three major candidates in the Democratic primaries until Kennedy was assassinated. Humphrey won the nomination, sparking numerous anti-war protests. Nixon entered the Republican primaries as the front-runner, defeating Nelson Rockefeller, Ronald Reagan, and other candidates to win his party's nomination. Alabama governor George Wallace ran on the American Independent Party ticket, campaigning in favor of racial segregation. The election year was tumultuous; it was marked by the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr. and subsequent riots across the nation, the assassination of Kennedy, and widespread opposition to the Vietnam War across university campuses. Nixon ran on a campaign that promised to restore law and order to the nation's cities and provide new leadership in the Vietnam War. A year later, he would popularize the term "silent majority" to describe those he viewed as being his target voters. He also pursued a "Southern strategy" designed to win conservative Southern white voters who had traditionally supported the Democrats. Humphrey promised to continue Johnson's war on poverty and to support the civil rights movement. Humphrey trailed significantly in polls taken in late August but narrowed Nixon's lead after Wallace's candidacy collapsed and Johnson suspended bombing in the Vietnam War. Nixon won a plurality of the popular vote by a narrow margin, but won by a large margin in the Electoral College, carrying most states outside of the Northeast. Wallace won five states in the Deep South and ran well in some ethnic enclave industrial districts in the North; he is the most recent third party candidate to win a state.[2] It was the first presidential election after the passage of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, which had led to mass enfranchisement of racial minorities throughout the country, especially in the South.[3] Nixon's victory marked the start of a period of Republican dominance in presidential elections, as Republicans won four of the next five elections. Contents 1 Historical background 2 Republican Party nomination 2.1 Other major candidates 2.2 "Favorite Son" candidates 2.3 Primaries 2.4 Republican Convention 3 Democratic Party nomination 3.1 Other major candidates 3.2 "Favorite Son" candidates 3.3 Enter Eugene McCarthy 3.4 Johnson withdraws 3.5 Contest 3.6 Democratic Convention and antiwar protests 3.7 Endorsements 4 American Independent Party nomination of George Wallace 4.1 Other parties and candidates 5 General election 5.1 Campaign strategies 5.2 Campaign themes 5.3 Humphrey's comeback and the October surprise 5.4 Nixon campaign sabotage of peace talks 5.5 Election 6 Aftermath 6.1 Results 6.2 Geography of results 6.2.1 Cartographic gallery 6.2.2 Results by state 6.3 Close states 6.4 National voter demographics 6.5 Voter demographics in the South 7 See also 8 Sources 9 References 10 Notes 11 Further reading 11.1 Primary sources 12 External links Historical background[edit] In the election of 1964, incumbent Democrat United States President Lyndon B. Johnson won the largest popular vote landslide in U.S. Presidential election history over Republican United States Senator Barry Goldwater. During the presidential term that followed, Johnson was able to achieve many political successes, including the passage of the Great Society domestic programs (including "War on Poverty" legislation), landmark civil rights legislation, and the continued exploration of space. Despite making significant achievements, his popular support would be short-lived. At the same time, the country endured large-scale race riots in the streets of its larger cities, along with a generational revolt of young people and violent debates over foreign policy. The emergence of the hippie counterculture, the rise of New Left activism, and the emergence of the Black Power movement exacerbated social and cultural clashes between classes, generations, and races. Adding to the national crisis, on April 4, 1968, civil rights leader Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr., was assassinated in Memphis, Tennessee, igniting further mass rioting and chaos, including Washington, D.C., where there was rioting within just a few blocks of the White House and machine guns were stationed on the Capitol steps to protect it.[4][5] The primary reason for the precipitous decline of President Lyndon B. Johnson's popularity was the Vietnam War, which he greatly escalated during his time in office. By late 1967, over 500,000 American soldiers were fighting in Vietnam. Draftees made up 42 percent of the military in Vietnam, but suffered 58% of the casualties as nearly 1000 Americans a month were killed and many more were injured.[6] Johnson's position was particularly damaged when the national news media began to focus on the high costs and ambiguous results of escalation, despite his repeated efforts to downplay the seriousness of the situation. In early January 1968, Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara stated that the war would be winding down as the North Vietnamese were losing their will to fight, but shortly thereafter, they launched the Tet Offensive, in which they and Communist Vietcong forces launched simultaneous attacks on all government strongholds in South Vietnam. Though a U.S. military victory, Tet led many Americans to ponder whether the war was winnable or worth it. In addition, voters felt they could not trust their government's assessment and reporting of the war effort. The Pentagon called for sending several hundred thousand more soldiers to Vietnam. Johnson's approval ratings fell below 35%, and the Secret Service refused to let the president make public appearances on the campuses of American colleges and universities, due to his extreme unpopularity among college students. The Secret Service also prevented Johnson from appearing at the 1968 Democratic National Convention in Chicago, Illinois, because it could not guarantee his safety from assassination.[7] Republican Party nomination[edit] Main article: 1968 Republican Party presidential primaries Republican Party Ticket, 1968 Richard Nixon Spiro Agnew for President for Vice President 36th Vice President of the United States (1953–1961) 55th Governor of Maryland (1967–1969) Campaign Other major candidates[edit] The following candidates were frequently interviewed by major broadcast networks, were listed in publicly published national polls, or ran a campaign that extended beyond their flying home delegation in the case of favorite sons. Nixon received 1,679,443 votes in the primaries. Candidates in this section are sorted by date of withdrawal from the nomination race Ronald Reagan Nelson Rockefeller Harold Stassen George W. Romney Governor of California (1967–1975) Governor of New York (1959–1973) Fmr. President of the University of Pennsylvania (1948–1953) Governor of Michigan (1963–1969) Campaign Campaign Campaign Lost nomination: August 8, 1968 1,696,632 votes Lost nomination: August 8, 1968 164,340 votes Lost nomination: August 8, 1968 31,665 votes Withdrew: February 28, 1968 4,447 votes "Favorite Son" candidates[edit] The following candidates were nominated as favorite sons or ran in a primary in an effort to control their local delegations, potentially as stalking horses for other major candidates, but never seriously seeking the presidential nomination themselves. Candidates in this section are sorted by date of withdrawal from the nomination race Frank Carlson Clifford P. Case Hiram Fong Jim Rhodes Winthrop Rockefeller Wally Hickel Strom Thurmond U.S. Senator from Kansas (1950–1969) U.S. Senator from New Jersey (1955–1979) U.S. Senator from Hawaii (1959–1977) Governor of Ohio (1963–1971) Governor of Arkansas (1967–1971) Governor of Alaska (1966–1969) U.S. Senator from South Carolina (1956–2003) LN: August 8, 1968 0 votes LN: August 8, 1968 0 votes LN: August 8, 1968 0 votes LN: August 8, 1968 614,492 votes LN: August 8, 1968 0 votes W: August 8, 1968 EN: August 8, 1968 0 votes W: August 8, 1968 EN: August 8, 1968 0 votes Daniel J. Evans Spiro Agnew Dewey F. Bartlett Claude R. Kirk Jr. John Tower Howard Baker John Volpe Governor of Washington (1965–1977) Governor of Maryland (1967–1969) Governor of Oklahoma (1967–1971) Governor of Florida (1967–1971) U.S. Senator from Texas (1961–1985) U.S. Senator from Tennessee (1967–1985) Governor of Massachusetts (1965–1969) W: August 6, 1968 ER: August 6, 1968 0 votes W: August 5, 1968 EN: August 5, 1968 0 votes W: August 4, 1968 EN: August 4, 1968 0 votes W: July 12, 1968 ER: July 12, 1968 0 votes W: June 30, 1968 EN: July 1, 1968 0 votes W: May 16, 1968 EN: May 16, 1968 0 votes LP: April 30, 1968 31,465 votes Primaries[edit] Richard Nixon campaign rally, July 1968 The front-runner for the Republican nomination was former Vice President Richard Nixon, who formally began campaigning in January 1968.[8] Nixon had worked tirelessly behind the scenes and was instrumental in Republican gains in Congress and governorships in the 1966 midterm elections. Thus, the party machinery and many of the new congressmen and governors supported him. Still, there was wariness in the Republican ranks over Nixon, who had lost the 1960 election and then lost the 1962 California gubernatorial election. Some hoped a more "electable" candidate would emerge. To a great extent the story of the 1968 Republican primary campaign and nomination is the story of one Nixon opponent after another entering the race and then dropping out. Nixon was always clearly the front runner throughout the contest because of his superior organization, and he easily defeated the rest of the field. Nixon's first challenger was Michigan Governor George W. Romney. A Gallup poll in mid-1967 showed Nixon with 39%, followed by Romney with 25%. However, Romney, after a fact finding trip to Vietnam, told Detroit talk show host Lou Gordon that he had been "brainwashed" by the military and the diplomatic corps into supporting the Vietnam War; the remark led to weeks of ridicule in the national news media. Since he had turned against American involvement in Vietnam, Romney planned to run as the anti-war Republican version of Eugene McCarthy.[9] However, following his "brainwashing" comment, Romney's support faded steadily, and with polls showing him far behind Nixon he withdrew from the race on February 28, 1968.[10] United States Senator Charles Percy was considered another potential threat to Nixon even before Romney's withdrawal, and had planned on potentially waging an active campaign after securing a role as Illinois's favorite son. Later however Percy declined to have his name presented on the ballot for the Illinois presidential primary, and while he never disclaimed his interest in the presidential nomination, he no longer actively sought it either.[11] Nixon won a resounding victory in the important New Hampshire primary on March 12, with 78% of the vote. Anti-war Republicans wrote in the name of New York Governor Nelson Rockefeller, the leader of the Republican Party's liberal wing, who received 11% of the vote and became Nixon's new challenger. Rockefeller had originally not intended to run, having discounted a campaign for the nomination in 1965 and planned on making United States Senator Jacob Javits the favorite son, either in preparation of a presidential campaign or to secure him the second spot on the ticket; as Rockefeller warmed to the idea of entering the race again however, Javits moved his attentions back towards seeking a third term in the Senate.[12] Nixon led Rockefeller in the polls throughout the primary campaign, and though Rockefeller defeated Nixon and Governor John Volpe from Massachusetts primary on April 30, he otherwise fared poorly in state primaries and conventions, having declared too late to place his name on state ballots. By early spring, California Governor Ronald Reagan, the leader of the Republican Party's conservative wing, had become Nixon's chief rival. In the Nebraska primary on May 14, Nixon won with 70% of the vote to 21% for Reagan and 5% for Rockefeller. While this was a wide margin for Nixon, Reagan remained Nixon's leading challenger. Nixon won the next primary of importance, Oregon, on May 15 with 65% of the vote, and won all the following primaries except for California (June 4), where only Reagan appeared on the ballot. Reagan's victory in California gave him a plurality of the nationwide primary vote, but his poor showing in most other state primaries left him far behind Nixon in the actual delegate count. Total popular vote: Ronald Reagan: 1,696,632 (37.93%) Richard Nixon: 1,679,443 (37.54%) James A. Rhodes: 614,492 (13.74%) Nelson Rockefeller: 164,340 (3.67%) Unpledged: 140,639 (3.14%) Eugene McCarthy (write-in): 44,520 (1.00%) Harold Stassen: 31,655 (0.71%) John Volpe: 31,465 (0.70%) Others: 21,456 (0.51%) George Wallace (write-in): 15,291 (0.34%) Robert F. Kennedy (write-in): 14,524 (0.33%) Hubert Humphrey (write-in): 5,698 (0.13) Lyndon B. Johnson (write-in): 4,824 (0.11%) George W. Romney: 4,447 (0.10%) Raymond P. Shafer: 1,223 (0.03%) William Scranton: 724 (0.02%) Charles H. Percy: 689 (0.02%) Barry Goldwater: 598 (0.01%) John Lindsay: 591 (0.01%) Republican Convention[edit] As the 1968 Republican National Convention opened in Miami Beach, Florida, the Associated Press estimated that Nixon had 656 delegate votes – only 11 short of the number he needed to win the nomination. His only remaining obstacles were Reagan and Rockefeller, who were planning to unite their forces in a "stop-Nixon" movement. Because Goldwater had done well in the Deep South, delegates to the 1968 Republican National Convention would be more Southern and conservative than past conventions. There was a real possibility that the conservative Reagan would be nominated if there was no victor on the first ballot. Nixon narrowly secured the nomination on the first ballot, with the aid of South Carolina Senator Strom Thurmond, who had switched parties in 1964.[13][page needed][14] He selected dark horse Maryland Governor Spiro Agnew as his running mate, a choice which Nixon believed would unite the party, appealing to both Northern moderates and Southerners disaffected with the Democrats.[15][16] It was also reported that Nixon's first choice for running mate was his longtime friend and ally Robert Finch, who was the Lieutenant Governor of California at the time. Finch declined that offer, but would later serve as the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare in Nixon's Administration. With Vietnam also a key issue, Nixon strongly considered tapping his 1960 running mate, Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr, who was a former U.S. senator, ambassador to the UN, and ambassador twice to South Vietnam. Candidates for the Vice-Presidential nomination: Spiro T. Agnew, Governor of Maryland Howard Baker, U.S. senator from Tennessee Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr., former U.S. senator from Massachusetts, two-time ambassador to South Vietnam, and 1960 GOP VP nominee. Edward Brooke, U.S. senator from Massachusetts George H. W. Bush, U.S. representative from Texas David F. Cargo, Governor of New Mexico John Chafee, Governor of Rhode Island Daniel J. Evans, Governor of Washington Robert H. Finch, Lieutenant Governor of California Mark Hatfield, U.S. senator from Oregon Jacob K. Javits, U.S. senator from New York Warren P. Knowles, Governor of Wisconsin John Lindsay, Mayor of New York City, New York John A. Love, Governor of Colorado Rogers C.B. Morton, U.S. representative from Maryland Charles H. Percy, U.S. senator from Illinois Ronald Reagan, Governor of California James A. Rhodes, Governor of Ohio Nelson Rockefeller, Governor of New York George W. Romney, Governor of Michigan John G. Tower, U.S. senator from Texas John A. Volpe, Governor of Massachusetts The Republican Convention Tally[17] President (before switches) (after switches) Vice President Vice-Presidential votes Richard M. Nixon 692 1238 Spiro T. Agnew 1119 Nelson Rockefeller 277 93 George Romney 186 Ronald Reagan 182 2 John V. Lindsay 10 Ohio Governor James A. Rhodes 55 — Massachusetts Senator Edward Brooke 1 Michigan Governor George Romney 50 — James A. Rhodes 1 New Jersey Senator Clifford Case 22 — Not Voting 16 Kansas Senator Frank Carlson 20 — — Arkansas Governor Winthrop Rockefeller 18 — — Hawaii Senator Hiram Fong 14 — — Harold Stassen 2 — — New York City Mayor John V. Lindsay 1 — — As of the 2020 presidential election, this was the last time two siblings (Nelson and Winthrop Rockefeller) ran against each other in a Presidential primary. Democratic Party nomination[edit] Main article: 1968 Democratic Party presidential primaries Democratic Party Ticket, 1968 Hubert Humphrey Edmund Muskie for President for Vice President 38th Vice President of the United States (1965–1969) U.S. Senator from Maine (1959–1980) Campaign Other major candidates[edit] The following candidates were frequently interviewed by major broadcast networks, were listed in publicly published national polls, or ran a campaign that extended beyond their home delegation in the case of favorite sons. Humphrey received 166,463 votes in the primaries. Candidates in this section are sorted by date of withdrawal from the nomination race Eugene McCarthy George McGovern Channing E. Phillips Lester Maddox Robert F. Kennedy Lyndon B. Johnson U.S. Senator from Minnesota (1959–1971) U.S. Senator from South Dakota (1963–1981) Reverend at Lincoln Temple from Washington, D.C. Governor of Georgia (1967–1971) U.S. Senator from New York (1965–1968) U.S. President (1963–1969) Campaign Campaign Campaign Campaign Campaign Lost nomination: August 29, 1968 2,914,933 votes Lost nomination: August 29, 1968 0 votes Lost nomination: August 29, 1968 0 votes Withdrew and endorsed George Wallace: August 28, 1968 0 votes Assassinated: June 6, 1968 2,305,148 votes Withdrew: March 31, 1968 383,590 votes "Favorite Son" candidates[edit] The following candidates were nominated as favorite sons or ran in a primary in an effort to control their local delegations, potentially as stalking horses for other major candidates, but never seriously seeking the presidential nomination themselves. Candidates in this section are sorted by date of withdrawal from the nomination race Mills Godwin Richard J. Hughes John McKeithen George Smathers John Connally Buford Ellington Robert E. McNair Channing E. Phillips Edmund Muskie Governor of Virginia (1966–1970) Governor of New Jersey (1962–1970) Governor of Louisiana (1964–1972) U.S. Senator from Florida (1951–1969) Governor of Texas (1963–1969) Governor of Tennessee (1967–1971) Governor of South Carolina (1965–1971) Reverend at Lincoln Temple from Washington, D.C. U.S. Senator from Maine (1959–1980) W: August 29, 1968 0 votes W: August 29, 1968 0 votes W: August 29, 1968 0 votes W: August 29, 1968 236,242 votes W: August 27, 1968 0 votes W: August 27, 1968 EH: August 27, 1968 0 votes W: August 27, 1968 EH: August 27, 1968 0 votes DC: August 27, 1968 0 votes W: August 22, 1968 0 votes Birch Bayh Stephen M. Young Harold Hughes George McGovern Thomas C. Lynch Warren E. Hearnes Roger D. Branigin Joseph Y. Resnick U.S. Senator from Indiana (1963–1981) U.S. Senator from Ohio (1959–1971) Governor of Iowa (1963–1969) U.S. Senator from South Dakota (1963–1981) Attorney General of California (1964–1971) Governor of Missouri (1965–1973) Governor of Indiana (1965–1969) U.S. Rep. from New York (1965–1969) W: August 16, 1968 0 votes W: August 16, 1968 549,140 votes W: August 15, 1968 EM: August 21, 1968 0 votes DC: August 10, 1968 0 votes LP: June 4, 1968 380,286 votes W: May 27, 1968 0 votes LP: May 7, 1968 238,700 votes EH: April 24, 1968 0 votes Enter Eugene McCarthy[edit] Because Lyndon B. Johnson had been elected to the presidency only once, in 1964, and had served less than two full years of the term before that, the 22nd Amendment did not disqualify him from running for another term.[18][19] As a result, it was widely assumed when 1968 began that President Johnson would run for another term, and that he would have little trouble winning the Democratic nomination. Despite growing opposition to Johnson's policies in Vietnam, it appeared that no prominent Democratic candidate would run against a sitting president of his own party. It was also accepted at the beginning of the year that Johnson's record of domestic accomplishments would overshadow public opposition to the Vietnam War and that he would easily boost his public image after he started campaigning.[20] Even United States Senator Robert F. Kennedy from New York, an outspoken critic of Johnson's policies with a large base of support, publicly declined to run against Johnson in the primaries. Poll numbers also suggested that a large share of Americans who opposed the Vietnam War felt the growth of the anti-war hippie movement among younger Americans was not helping their cause.[20] On January 30, however, claims by the Johnson administration that a recent troop surge would soon bring an end to the war were severely discredited when the Tet Offensive broke out. Although the American military was eventually able to fend off the attacks, and also inflict heavy losses among the communist opposition, the ability of the North Vietnamese Army and Viet Cong to launch large scale attacks during the Tet Offensive's long duration greatly weakened American support for the military draft and further combat operations in Vietnam.[21] A recorded phone conversation which Johnson had with Chicago mayor Richard J. Daley on January 27 revealed that both men had become aware of Kennedy's private intention to enter the Democratic presidential primaries and that Johnson was willing to accept Daley's offer to run as Humphrey's vice president if he were to end his re-election campaign.[22] Daley, whose city would host the 1968 Democratic National Convention, also preferred either Johnson or Humphrey over any other candidate and stated that Kennedy had met him the week before, and that he was unsuccessful in his attempt to win over Daley's support.[22] In time, only United States Senator Eugene McCarthy from Minnesota proved willing to challenge Johnson openly. Running as an anti-war candidate in the New Hampshire primary, McCarthy hoped to pressure the Democrats into publicly opposing the Vietnam War. Since New Hampshire was the first presidential primary of 1968, McCarthy poured most of his limited resources into the state. He was boosted by thousands of young college students led by youth coordinator Sam Brown,[23] who shaved their beards and cut their hair to be "Clean for Gene". These students organized get-out-the-vote drives, rang doorbells, distributed McCarthy buttons and leaflets, and worked hard in New Hampshire for McCarthy. On March 12, McCarthy won 42 percent of the primary vote to Johnson's 49 percent, a shockingly strong showing against an incumbent president, which was even more impressive because Johnson had more than 24 supporters running for the Democratic National Convention delegate slots to be filled in the election, while McCarthy's campaign organized more strategically, McCarthy won 20 of the 24 delegates. This gave McCarthy's campaign legitimacy and momentum. Sensing Johnson's vulnerability, Senator Robert F. Kennedy announced his candidacy four days after the New Hampshire primary. Thereafter, McCarthy and Kennedy engaged in a series of state primaries. Despite Kennedy's high profile, McCarthy won most of the early primaries, including Kennedy's native state of Massachusetts and some primaries in which he and Kennedy were in direct competition.[24][25] Following his victory in the key battleground state of Oregon, it was assumed that McCarthy was the preferred choice among the young voters.[26] Johnson withdraws[edit] On March 31, 1968, following the New Hampshire primary and Kennedy's entry into the election, the president announced to the nation in a televised speech that he was suspending all bombing of North Vietnam in favor of peace talks. Johnson concluded his speech and startled the nation by announcing "With America's sons in the fields far away, with America's future under challenge right here at home, with our hopes and the world's hopes for peace in the balance every day, I do not believe that I should devote an hour or a day of my time to any personal partisan causes or to any duties other than the awesome duties of this office—the presidency of your country. Accordingly, I shall not seek, and I will not accept, the nomination of my party for another term as your President." Not discussed publicly at the time was Johnson's concern he might not survive another term—Johnson's health was poor, and he had suffered a serious heart attack in 1955 while serving in the U.S. Senate. Indeed, he died on January 22, 1973, only two days after the new presidential term concluded. Bleak political forecasts also contributed to Johnson's withdrawal; internal polling by Johnson's campaign in Wisconsin, the next state to hold a primary election, showed the President trailing badly.[27] Vice President Hubert Humphrey, President Lyndon B. Johnson, and General Creighton Abrams in a Cabinet Room meeting in March 1968 Historians have debated just why Johnson quit a few days after his weak showing in New Hampshire. Jeff Shesol says Johnson wanted out of the White House but also wanted vindication; when the indicators turned negative he decided to leave.[28] Lewis L. Gould maintains that Johnson had neglected the party, was hurting it by his Vietnam policies, and underestimated McCarthy's strength until the very last minute, when it was too late for Johnson to recover.[29] Randall Bennett Woods said Johnson realized he needed to leave in order for the nation to heal.[30] Robert Dallek writes that Johnson had no further domestic goals, and realized that his personality had eroded his popularity. His health was not good, and he was preoccupied with the Kennedy campaign; his wife was pressing for his retirement and his base of support continued to shrink. Leaving the race would allow him to pose as a peacemaker.[31] Anthony J. Bennett, however, claims Johnson "had been forced out of a re-election race in 1968 by outrage over his policy in Southeast Asia".[32] It has also been reported that Johnson decided to wind down his re-election bid after popular and influential CBS News anchor Walter Cronkite turned against the president's policy in Vietnam and recommended peace negotiations during a CBS News editorial which aired on February 27.[33][34] After later watching Cronkite's editorial, Johnson allegedly exclaimed "if I've lost Cronkite, I've lost Middle America."[33] Issues surrounding reports of this allegation have raised questions about its accuracy,[35] such as the fact that Johnson was attending Texas Governor John Connally's birthday gala in Austin, Texas, when Cronkite's editorial aired and thus was unable to see the original broadcast.[35] However, Cronkite and CBS News correspondent Bob Schieffer defended reports that the remark had been made and claimed that members of Johnson's inner circle who had watched the editorial with the president, including presidential aide George Christian and journalist Bill Moyers, were able to confirm its accuracy to them at a later time.[36][37] Schieffer, who was serving as a reporter for the Star-Telegram's WBAP television station in Fort Worth, Texas, when Cronkite's editorial aired, acknowledged reports that the president saw the editorial's original broadcast were inaccurate,[37] but claimed the president was able to watch a taping of it the morning after it aired and then made the remark.[37] However, Johnson's January 27, 1968 phone conversion with Daley also revealed that he and the Chicago Mayor were also secretly feeding Robert Kennedy's ego so he would stay in the race, even making him convinced that the Democratic Party was undergoing a "revolution,"[22] and help him at the Convention, possibly earning him a spot as vice president.[22] With Johnson's withdrawal, the Democratic Party quickly split into four factions. The first faction consisted of labor unions and big-city party bosses (led by Mayor Richard J. Daley). This group had traditionally controlled the Democratic Party since the days of President Franklin D. Roosevelt, and they feared loss of their control over the party. After Johnson's withdrawal this group rallied to support Hubert Humphrey, Johnson's vice-president; it was also believed that President Johnson himself was covertly supporting Humphrey, despite his public claims of neutrality. The second faction, which rallied behind Senator Eugene McCarthy, was composed of college students, intellectuals, and upper-middle-class whites who had been the early activists against the war in Vietnam; they perceived themselves as the future of the Democratic Party. The third group was primarily composed of Catholics, blacks and other minorities as well as several anti-war groups; these groups rallied behind Senator Robert F. Kennedy. The fourth group consisted of white Southern Democrats. Some older men, remembering the New Deal's positive impact upon the rural South, supported Vice-President Humphrey. Many would rally behind the third-party campaign of former Alabama Governor George C. Wallace as a "law and order" candidate. Since the Vietnam War had become the major issue that was dividing the Democratic Party, and Johnson had come to symbolize the war for many liberal Democrats, Johnson believed that he could not win the nomination without a major struggle, and that he would probably lose the election in November to the Republicans. However, by withdrawing from the race he could avoid the stigma of defeat, and he could keep control of the party machinery by giving the nomination to Humphrey, who had been a loyal vice-president.[38] Milne (2011) argues that, in terms of foreign-policy in the Vietnam War, Johnson at the end wanted Nixon to be president rather than Humphrey, since Johnson agreed with Nixon, rather than Humphrey, on the need to defend South Vietnam from communism.[39] However, Johnson's telephone calls show that Johnson believed the Nixon camp was deliberately sabotaging the Paris peace talks. He told Humphrey, who refused to use allegations based on illegal wiretaps of a presidential candidate. Nixon himself called Johnson and denied the allegations. Dallek concludes that Nixon's advice to Saigon made no difference, and that Humphrey was so closely identified with Johnson's unpopular policies that no last-minute deal with Hanoi could have affected the election.[40] Contest[edit] Statewide contest by winner: Red = Kennedy, Orange = Smathers, Yellow = Young, Green = Johnson, Blue = McCarthy, Grey = No primary After Johnson's withdrawal, Vice President Hubert Humphrey announced his candidacy. Kennedy was successful in four state primaries (Indiana, Nebraska, South Dakota, and California) and McCarthy won six (Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, Oregon, New Jersey, and Illinois). However, in primaries where they campaigned directly against one another, Kennedy won three primaries (Indiana, Nebraska, and California) and McCarthy won one (Oregon).[41] Humphrey did not compete in the primaries, leaving that job to favorite sons who were his surrogates, notably United States Senator George A. Smathers from Florida, United States Senator Stephen M. Young from Ohio, and Governor Roger D. Branigin of Indiana. Instead, Humphrey concentrated on winning the delegates in non-primary states, where party leaders such as Chicago Mayor Richard J. Daley controlled the delegate votes in their states. Kennedy defeated Branigin and McCarthy in the Indiana primary, and then defeated McCarthy in the Nebraska primary. However, McCarthy upset Kennedy in the Oregon primary. After Kennedy's defeat in Oregon, the California primary was seen as crucial to both Kennedy and McCarthy. McCarthy stumped the state's many colleges and universities, where he was treated as a hero for being the first presidential candidate to oppose the war. Kennedy campaigned in the ghettos and barrios of the state's larger cities, where he was mobbed by enthusiastic supporters. Kennedy and McCarthy engaged in a television debate a few days before the primary; it was generally considered a draw. On June 4, Kennedy narrowly defeated McCarthy in California, 46%–42%. However, McCarthy refused to withdraw from the race and made it clear that he would contest Kennedy in the upcoming New York primary, where McCarthy had much support from anti-war activists in New York City. The New York primary quickly became a moot point, however, for Kennedy was assassinated shortly after midnight on June 5; he died twenty-six hours later at Good Samaritan Hospital. Kennedy had just given his victory speech in a crowded ballroom of the Ambassador Hotel in Los Angeles; he and his aides then entered a narrow kitchen pantry on their way to a banquet room to meet with reporters. In the pantry Kennedy and five others were shot by Sirhan Sirhan, a 24-year-old Rosicrucian Palestinian of Christian background and Jordanian citizenship, who hated Kennedy because of his support for Israel. Sirhan admitted his guilt, was convicted of murder, and is still in prison.[42] In recent years some have cast doubt on Sirhan's guilt, including Sirhan himself, who said he was "brainwashed" into killing Kennedy and was a patsy.[43] Political historians still debate whether Kennedy could have won the Democratic nomination had he lived. Some historians, such as Theodore H. White and Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr., have argued that Kennedy's broad appeal and famed charisma would have convinced the party bosses at the Democratic Convention to give him the nomination. Jack Newfield, author of RFK: A Memoir, stated in a 1998 interview that on the night he was assassinated, "[Kennedy] had a phone conversation with Mayor Daley of Chicago, and Mayor Daley all but promised to throw the Illinois delegates to Bobby at the convention in August 1968. I think he said to me, and Pete Hamill, 'Daley is the ball game, and I think we have Daley.'"[44] However, other writers such as Tom Wicker, who covered the Kennedy campaign for The New York Times, believe that Humphrey's large lead in delegate votes from non-primary states, combined with Senator McCarthy's refusal to quit the race, would have prevented Kennedy from ever winning a majority at the Democratic Convention, and that Humphrey would have been the Democratic nominee even if Kennedy had lived. The journalist Richard Reeves and historian Michael Beschloss have both written that Humphrey was the likely nominee, and future Democratic National Committee chairman Larry O'Brien wrote in his memoirs that Kennedy's chances of winning the nomination had been slim, even after his win in California. At the moment of RFK's death, the delegate totals were: Hubert Humphrey 561 Robert F. Kennedy 393 Eugene McCarthy 258 Total popular vote:[45] Eugene McCarthy: 2,914,933 (38.73%) Robert F. Kennedy: 2,305,148 (30.63%) Stephen M. Young: 549,140 (7.30%) Lyndon B. Johnson: 383,590 (5.10%) Thomas C. Lynch: 380,286 (5.05%) Roger D. Branigin: 238,700 (3.17%) George Smathers: 236,242 (3.14%) Hubert Humphrey: 166,463 (2.21%) Unpledged: 161,143 (2.14%) Scott Kelly: 128,899 (1.71%) George Wallace: 34,489 (0.46%) Richard Nixon (write-in): 13,610 (0.18%) Ronald Reagan (write-in): 5,309 (0.07%) Ted Kennedy: 4,052 (0.05%) Paul C. Fisher: 506 (0.01%) John G. Crommelin: 186 (0.00%) Democratic Convention and antiwar protests[edit] Robert Kennedy's death altered the dynamics of the race. Although Humphrey appeared the presumptive favorite for the nomination, thanks to his support from the traditional power blocs of the party, he was an unpopular choice with many of the anti-war elements within the party, who identified him with Johnson's controversial position on the Vietnam War. However, Kennedy's delegates failed to unite behind a single candidate who could have prevented Humphrey from getting the nomination. Some of Kennedy's support went to McCarthy, but many of Kennedy's delegates, remembering their bitter primary battles with McCarthy, refused to vote for him. Instead, these delegates rallied around the late-starting candidacy of Senator George McGovern of South Dakota, a Kennedy supporter in the spring primaries who had presidential ambitions himself. This division of the anti-war votes at the Democratic Convention made it easier for Humphrey to gather the delegates he needed to win the nomination. When the 1968 Democratic National Convention opened in Chicago, thousands of young activists from around the nation gathered in the city to protest the Vietnam War. On the evening of August 28, in a clash which was covered on live television, Americans were shocked to see Chicago police brutally beating anti-war protesters in the streets of Chicago in front of the Conrad Hilton Hotel. While the protesters chanted "the whole world is watching", the police used clubs and tear gas to beat back or arrest the protesters, leaving many of them bloody and dazed. The tear gas wafted into numerous hotel suites; in one of them Vice President Humphrey was watching the proceedings on television. The police said that their actions were justified because numerous police officers were being injured by bottles, rocks, and broken glass that were being thrown at them by the protestors. The protestors had also yelled insults at the police, calling them "pigs" and other epithets. The anti-war and police riot divided the Democratic Party's base: some supported the protestors and felt that the police were being heavy-handed, but others disapproved of the violence and supported the police. Meanwhile, the convention itself was marred by the strong-arm tactics of Chicago's mayor Richard J. Daley (who was seen on television angrily cursing Senator Abraham Ribicoff from Connecticut, who made a speech at the convention denouncing the excesses of the Chicago police). In the end, the nomination itself was anti-climactic, with Vice-President Humphrey handily beating McCarthy and McGovern on the first ballot. After the delegates nominated Humphrey, the convention then turned to selecting a vice-presidential nominee. The main candidates for this position were Senators Edward M. Kennedy from Massachusetts, Edmund Muskie from Maine, and Fred R. Harris from Oklahoma; Governors Richard Hughes of New Jersey and Terry Sanford of North Carolina; Mayor Joseph Alioto of San Francisco, California; former Deputy Secretary of Defense Cyrus Vance; and Ambassador Sargent Shriver from Maryland. Another idea floated was to tap Republican Governor Nelson Rockefeller of New York, one of the most liberal Republicans. Ted Kennedy was Humphrey's first choice, but the senator turned him down. After narrowing it down to Senator Muskie and Senator Harris, Vice-President Humphrey chose Muskie, a moderate and environmentalist from Maine, for the nomination. The convention complied with the request and nominated Senator Muskie as Humphrey's running mate. The publicity from the anti-war riots crippled Humphrey's campaign from the start, and it never fully recovered.[46] Before 1968 the city of Chicago had been a frequent host for the political conventions of both parties; since 1968 only one national convention has been held there (the Democratic convention of 1996, which nominated Bill Clinton for a second term). Many believe that this is due in part to the violence and chaos of the 1968 convention. Balloting Presidential tally Vice Presidential tally Hubert Humphrey 1759.25 Edmund S. Muskie 1942.5 Eugene McCarthy 601 Not Voting 604.25 George S. McGovern 146.5 Julian Bond 48.5 Channing Phillips 67.5 David Hoeh 4 Daniel K. Moore 17.5 Edward M. Kennedy 3.5 Edward M. Kennedy 12.75 Eugene McCarthy 3.0 Paul W. "Bear" Bryant 1.5 Others 16.25 James H. Gray 0.5 George Wallace 0.5 Source: Keating Holland, "All the Votes... Really," CNN[47] Endorsements[edit] Hubert Humphrey President Lyndon B. Johnson Mayor Richard J. Daley of Chicago Former President Harry S. Truman Singer/actor Frank Sinatra Robert F. Kennedy Senator Abraham Ribicoff from Connecticut[45] Senator George McGovern from South Dakota[48] Governor Harold E. Hughes of Iowa[49] Senator Vance Hartke from Indiana[45] Labor Leader Cesar Chavez[45] Writer Truman Capote[50] Writer Norman Mailer[45] Actress Shirley MacLaine[50] Actress Stefanie Powers Actor Robert Vaughn[51] Actor Peter Lawford Singer Bobby Darin[52] Eugene McCarthy Representative Don Edwards from California[45] Actor Paul Newman[45] Playwright Arthur Miller[50] Writer William Styron[50] George McGovern (during convention) Senator Abraham Ribicoff from Connecticut[53] Governor Harold E. Hughes of Iowa[45] American Independent Party nomination of George Wallace[edit] See also: George Wallace presidential campaign, 1968 American Independent Party Ticket, 1968 George Wallace Curtis LeMay for President for Vice President 45th Governor of Alabama (1963–1967) General of the U.S. Air Force (1951–1965) Campaign The American Independent Party, which was established in 1967 by Bill and Eileen Shearer, nominated former Alabama Governor George Wallace – whose pro-racial segregation policies had been rejected by the mainstream of the Democratic Party – as the party's candidate for president. The impact of the Wallace campaign was substantial, winning the electoral votes of several states in the Deep South. He appeared on the ballot in all fifty states, but not the District of Columbia. Although he did not come close to winning any states outside the South, Wallace was the most popular 1968 presidential candidate among young men.[54] Wallace also proved to be popular among blue-collar workers in the North and Midwest, and he took many votes which might have gone to Humphrey.[55] Wallace did not expect to win the election – his strategy was to prevent either major party candidate from winning a preliminary majority in the Electoral College. He had his electors pledge to vote not necessarily for him but rather for whomever he directed them to support – his objective was not to move the election into the U.S. House of Representatives, but rather to give himself the bargaining power to determine the winner. Wallace's running mate was retired four star General Curtis LeMay. Prior to deciding on LeMay, Wallace gave serious consideration to former U.S. senator, governor, and Baseball Commissioner A.B. Happy Chandler of Kentucky as his running mate.[56] Chandler and Wallace met a number of times; however, Chandler said that he and Wallace were unable to come to an agreement regarding their positions on racial matters. Paradoxically, Chandler supported the segregationist Dixiecrats in the 1948 presidential elections. However, after being reelected Governor of Kentucky in 1955, he used National Guard troops to enforce school integration.[57] LeMay embarrassed Wallace's campaign in the fall by suggesting that nuclear weapons could be used in Vietnam. Other parties and candidates[edit] Also on the ballot in two or more states were black activist Eldridge Cleaver (who was ineligible to take office, as he would have only been 33 years of age on January 20, 1969) for the Peace and Freedom Party; Henning Blomen for the Socialist Labor Party; Fred Halstead for the Socialist Workers Party; E. Harold Munn for the Prohibition Party; and Charlene Mitchell – the first African-American woman to run for president, and the first woman to receive valid votes in a general election – for the Communist Party. Comedians Dick Gregory and Pat Paulsen were notable write-in candidates. A facetious presidential candidate for 1968 was a pig named Pigasus, as a political statement by the Yippies, to illustrate their premise that "one pig's as good as any other."[58][page needed] General election[edit] Campaign strategies[edit] Nixon developed a "Southern strategy" that was designed to appeal to conservative white southerners, who traditionally voted Democratic, but were opposed to Johnson and Humphrey's support for the civil rights movement, as well as the rioting that had broken out in the ghettos of most large cities. Wallace, however, won over many of the voters Nixon targeted, effectively splitting the conservative vote. Indeed, Wallace deliberately targeted many states he had little chance of carrying himself in the hope that by splitting the conservative vote with Nixon he would give those states to Humphrey and, by extension, boost his own chances of denying both opponents an Electoral College majority.[59] Since he was well behind Nixon in the polls as the campaign began, Humphrey opted for a slashing, fighting campaign style. He repeatedly – and unsuccessfully – challenged Nixon to a televised debate, and he often compared his campaign to the successful underdog effort of President Harry Truman, another Democrat who had trailed in the polls, in the 1948 presidential election. Humphrey predicted that he, like Truman, would surprise the experts and win an upset victory.[60] Campaign themes[edit] Nixon campaigned on a theme to restore "law and order,"[61] which appealed to many voters angry with the hundreds of violent riots that had taken place across the country in the previous few years. Following the murder of Martin Luther King in April 1968, there was massive rioting in inner city areas. The police was overwhelmed and President Johnson had to call out the U.S. Army. Nixon also opposed forced busing to desegregate schools.[62] Proclaiming himself a supporter of civil rights, he recommended education as the solution rather than militancy. During the campaign, Nixon proposed government tax incentives to African Americans for small businesses and home improvements in their existing neighborhoods.[63] During the campaign, Nixon also used as a theme his opposition to the decisions of Chief Justice Earl Warren. Many conservatives were critical of Chief Justice Warren for using the Supreme Court to promote liberal policies in the fields of civil rights, civil liberties, and the separation of church and state. Nixon promised that if he were elected president, he would appoint justices who would take a less-active role in creating social policy.[64] In another campaign promise, he pledged to end the draft.[65] During the 1960s, Nixon had been impressed by a paper he had read by Professor Martin Anderson of Columbia University. Anderson had argued in the paper for an end to the draft and the creation of an all-volunteer army.[66] Nixon also saw ending the draft as an effective way to undermine the anti-Vietnam war movement, since he believed affluent college-age youths would stop protesting the war once their own possibility of having to fight in it was gone.[67] Humphrey, meanwhile, promised to continue and expand the Great Society welfare programs started by President Johnson, and to continue the Johnson Administration's "War on Poverty." He also promised to continue the efforts of Presidents Kennedy and Johnson, and the Supreme Court, in promoting the expansion of civil rights and civil liberties for minority groups. However, Humphrey also felt constrained for most of his campaign in voicing any opposition to the Vietnam War policies of President Johnson, due to his fear that Johnson would reject any peace proposals he made and undermine his campaign. As a result, early in his campaign Humphrey often found himself the target of anti-war protestors, some of whom heckled and disrupted his campaign rallies. Humphrey's comeback and the October surprise[edit] After the Democratic Convention in late August, Humphrey trailed Nixon by double digits in most polls, and his chances seemed hopeless. According to Time magazine, "The old Democratic coalition was disintegrating, with untold numbers of blue-collar workers responding to Wallace's blandishments, Negroes threatening to sit out the election, liberals disaffected over the Vietnam War, the South lost. The war chest was almost empty, and the party's machinery, neglected by Lyndon Johnson, creaked in disrepair."[68] Calling for "the politics of joy," and using the still-powerful labor unions as his base, Humphrey fought back. In order to distance himself from Johnson and to take advantage of the Democratic plurality in voter registration, Humphrey stopped being identified in ads as "Vice-President Hubert Humphrey," instead being labelled "Democratic candidate Hubert Humphrey." Humphrey attacked Wallace as a racist bigot who appealed to the darker impulses of Americans. Wallace had been rising in the polls, and peaked at 21% in September, but his momentum stopped after he selected Curtis LeMay as his running mate. Curtis LeMay's suggestion of tactical nuclear weapons being used in Vietnam conjured up memories of the 1964 Goldwater campaign.[13] Labor unions also undertook a major effort to win back union members who were supporting Wallace, with substantial success. Polls that showed Wallace winning almost one-half of union members in the summer of 1968 showed a sharp decline in his union support as the campaign progressed. As election day approached and Wallace's support in the North and Midwest began to wane, Humphrey finally began to climb in the polls. In October, Humphrey—who was rising sharply in the polls due to the collapse of the Wallace vote—began to distance himself publicly from the Johnson administration on the Vietnam War, calling for a bombing halt. The key turning point for Humphrey's campaign came when President Johnson officially announced a bombing halt, and even a possible peace deal, the weekend before the election. The "Halloween Peace" gave Humphrey's campaign a badly needed boost. In addition, Senator Eugene McCarthy finally endorsed Humphrey in late October after previously refusing to do so, and by election day the polls were reporting a dead heat.[69] Nixon campaign sabotage of peace talks[edit] The Nixon campaign had anticipated a possible "October surprise," a peace agreement produced by the Paris negotiations; as such an agreement would be a boost Humphrey, Nixon thwarted any last-minute chances of a "Halloween Peace." Nixon told campaign aide and his future White House Chief of Staff H. R. Haldeman to put a "monkey wrench" into an early end to the war.[70] Johnson was enraged and said that Nixon had "blood on his hands" and that Senate Minority Leader Everett Dirksen agreed with Johnson that such action was "treason."[71][72] Defense Secretary Clark Clifford considered the moves an illegal violation of the Logan Act.[73] A former director of the Nixon Library called it a "covert action" which "laid the skulduggery of his presidency."[70] Bryce Harlow, former Eisenhower White House staff member, claimed to have "a double agent working in the White House....I kept Nixon informed." Harlow and Nixon's future National Security Advisor and Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, who was friendly with both campaigns and guaranteed a job in either a Humphrey or Nixon administration, separately predicted Johnson's "bombing halt": "The word is out that we are making an effort to throw the election to Humphrey. Nixon has been told of it," Democratic senator George Smathers informed Johnson.[74] Nixon asked Anna Chennault to be his "channel to Mr. Thieu" in order to advise him to refuse participation in the talks, in what is sometimes described as the "Anna Chennault Affair."[75] Thieu was promised a better deal under a Nixon administration.[76][75] Chennault agreed and periodically reported to John Mitchell that Thieu had no intention of attending a peace conference. On November 2, Chennault informed the South Vietnamese ambassador: "I have just heard from my boss in Albuquerque who says his boss [Nixon] is going to win. And you tell your boss [Thieu] to hold on a while longer." In 1997, Chennault admitted that "I was constantly in touch with Nixon and Mitchell."[77] The effort also involved Texas Senator John Tower and Kissinger, who traveled to Paris on behalf of the Nixon campaign. William Bundy stated that Kissinger obtained "no useful inside information" from his trip to Paris, and "almost any experienced Hanoi watcher might have come to the same conclusion". While Kissinger may have "hinted that his advice was based on contacts with the Paris delegation," this sort of "self-promotion....is at worst a minor and not uncommon practice, quite different from getting and reporting real secrets."[78] Johnson learned of the Nixon-Chennault effort because the NSA was intercepting communications in Vietnam.[79] In response, Johnson ordered NSA surveillance of Chennault and wire-tapped the South Vietnamese embassy and members of the Nixon campaign.[80] He did not leak the information to the public because he did not want to "shock America" with the revelation,[81] nor reveal that the NSA was intercepting communications in Vietnam.[82] Johnson did make information available to Humphrey, but at this point Humphrey thought he was going to win the election, so he did not reveal the information to the public. Humphrey later regretted this as a mistake.[83] The South Vietnamese government withdrew from peace negotiations, and Nixon publicly offered to go to Saigon to help the negotiations.[84] A promising "peace bump" ended up in "shambles" for the Democratic Party.[82] Election[edit] The election on November 5, 1968, proved to be extremely close, and it was not until the following morning that the television news networks were able to declare Nixon the winner. The key states proved to be California, Ohio, and Illinois, all of which Nixon won by three percentage points or less. Had Humphrey carried all three of these states, he would have won the election. Had he carried only two of them or just California among them, George Wallace would have succeeded in his aim of preventing an electoral college majority for any candidate, and the decision would have been given to the House of Representatives, at the time controlled by the Democratic Party. Nixon won the popular vote with a plurality of 512,000 votes, or a victory margin of about one percentage point. In the electoral college Nixon's victory was larger, as he carried 32 states with 301 electoral votes, compared to Humphrey's 13 states and 191 electoral votes and Wallace's five states and 46 electoral votes.[85] Out of all the states that Nixon had previously carried in 1960, Maine and Washington were the only two states that did not vote for him again; Nixon carried them during his re-election campaign in 1972. He also carried eight states that voted for John F. Kennedy in 1960: Illinois, New Jersey, Missouri, North Carolina, South Carolina, New Mexico, Nevada and Delaware. This was the last time until 1988 that the state of Washington voted Democratic and until 1992 that Connecticut, Maine, and Michigan voted Democratic in the general election. Nixon was also the last Republican candidate to win a presidential election without carrying Alabama, Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas. This is the first time which the Republican candidate captured the White House without carrying Michigan, Minnesota, Maine and Pennsylvania. He would be the last Republican candidate to carry Minnesota (four years later, in 1972), as of 2016.[2] This is also the first time since 1916 that Minnesota voted for the candidate who did not eventually win.[86] Remarkably, Nixon won the election despite winning only two of the six states (Arizona and South Carolina) won by Republican Barry Goldwater four years earlier. He remains the only presidential candidate to win in spite of defending such a low number of his own party's states. All of the remaining four States carried by Goldwater were carried by Wallace in 1968. They would be won by Nixon in 1972.[85][2] Of the 3,130 counties/districts/independent cities making returns, Nixon won in 1,859 (59.39%) while Humphrey carried 693 (22.14%). Wallace was victorious in 578 counties (18.47%), all of which (with one exception of Pemiscot County, Missouri) were located in the South.[85] Nixon said that Humphrey left a gracious message congratulating him, noting, "I know exactly how he felt. I know how it feels to lose a close one."[87] Aftermath[edit] Election results by county. Richard Nixon Hubert Humphrey George Wallace Results by congressional district. Nixon's victory is often considered a realigning election in American politics. From 1932 to 1964, the Democratic Party was undoubtedly the majority party, winning seven out of nine presidential elections, and their agenda influenced policies undertaken by the Republican Eisenhower administration. The 1968 election reversed the situation completely. From 1968 until 2004, Republicans won seven out of ten presidential elections, and its policies clearly affected those enacted by the Democratic Clinton administration via the Third Way.[88][2] The election was a seismic event in the long-term realignment in Democratic Party support, especially in the South.[89] Nationwide, the bitter splits over civil rights, the new left, the Vietnam War, and other "culture wars" were slow to heal. Democrats could no longer count on white Southern support for the presidency, as Republicans made major gains in suburban areas and areas filled with Northern migrants.[90] The rural Democratic "courthouse cliques" in the South lost power. While Democrats controlled local and state politics in the South, Republicans usually won the presidential vote. In 1968, Humphrey won less than ten percent of the white Southern vote, with two-thirds of his vote in the region coming from blacks, who now voted in full strength.[91] From 1968 until 2004, only two Democrats were elected president, both native Southerners – Jimmy Carter of Georgia and Bill Clinton of Arkansas. Not until 2008 did a Northern Democrat, Barack Obama of Illinois, again win a presidential election.[2][92] Another important result of this election was that it led to several reforms in how the Democratic Party chose its presidential nominees. In 1969, the McGovern–Fraser Commission adopted a set of rules for the states to follow in selecting convention delegates. These rules reduced the influence of party leaders on the nominating process and provided greater representation for minorities, women, and youth. The reforms led most states to adopt laws requiring primary elections, instead of party leaders, to choose delegates.[93] After 1968, the only way to win the party's presidential nomination became through the primary process; Humphrey turned out to be the last nominee of either major party to win his party's nomination without having directly competed in the primaries. This remains most recent presidential election in which a sitting president eligible for re-election did not seek another term (and one of only two such elections to occur under the Twenty-second Amendment, the first being the 1952 election), and also the last election in which any third party candidate won an entire state's electoral votes, with Wallace carrying five states.[2] This election was the last time until 1992 that the Democratic nominee won Connecticut, Maine, and Michigan and the last until 1988 when Washington voted Democrat, and the last time a Republican won the presidency without winning Alabama, Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas.[2] It was also the first time since 1888 that bellwether Coös County, New Hampshire did not support the winning candidate,[94] which has occurred again only in 2004. This was the first time since 1928 that North Carolina voted for a Republican, and the first since 1912 (only the second time since 1852 and as of 2012, the last time) that Maine and Vermont did not support same party. Despite the narrow (0.7%) difference in the popular vote, Humphrey took only 35.5% of the electoral vote. This disparity prompted the introduction of the Bayh–Celler Constitutional amendment in Congress, which would have replaced the Electoral College with a direct election of the presidency. The effort was not successful and the Electoral College is still in force.[95] Results[edit] Electoral results Presidential candidate Party Home state Popular vote Electoral vote Running mate Count Percentage Vice-presidential candidate Home state Electoral vote Richard Milhous Nixon Republican New York[a] 31,783,783 43.42% 301 Spiro Theodore Agnew Maryland 301 Hubert Horatio Humphrey Democratic Minnesota 31,271,839 42.72% 191 Edmund Sixtus Muskie Maine 191 George Corley Wallace American Independent Alabama 9,901,118 13.53% 46[96] Curtis Emerson LeMay California[97] 46[96] Other 243,258 0.33% — Other — Total 73,199,998 100% 538 538 Needed to win 270 270 Source (Popular Vote): Leip, David. "1968 Presidential Election Results". Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections. Retrieved August 7, 2005. Source (Electoral Vote): "Electoral College Box Scores 1789–1996". National Archives and Records Administration. Retrieved August 7, 2005. Popular vote Nixon   43.42% Humphrey   42.72% Wallace   13.53% Others   0.33% Electoral vote Nixon   55.95% Humphrey   35.50% Wallace   8.55% Geography of results[edit] Results by county, shaded according to winning candidate's percentage of the vote Cartographic gallery[edit] Presidential election results by county Republican presidential election results by county Democratic presidential election results by county American Independent presidential election results by county "Other" presidential election results by county Cartogram of presidential election results by county Cartogram of Republican presidential election results by county Cartogram of Democratic presidential election results by county Cartogram of American Independent presidential election results by county Cartogram of "Other" presidential election results by county Results by state[edit] [98] States/districts won by Nixon/Agnew States/districts won by Humphrey/Muskie States/districts won by Wallace/LeMay Richard Nixon Republican Hubert H. Humphrey Democratic George Wallace American Independent Margin State Total State electoral votes # % electoral votes # % electoral votes # % electoral votes # % # Alabama 10 146,923 13.99 - 196,579 18.72 - 691,425 65.86 10 -494,846 -47.13 1,049,917 AL Alaska 3 37,600 45.28 3 35,411 42.65 - 10,024 12.07 - 2,189 2.64 83,035 AK Arizona 5 266,721 54.78 5 170,514 35.02 - 46,573 9.56 - 96,207 19.76 486,936 AZ Arkansas 6 189,062 31.01 - 184,901 30.33 - 235,627 38.65 6 -46,565 -7.64 609,590 AR California 40 3,467,664 47.82 40 3,244,318 44.74 - 487,270 6.72 - 223,346 3.08 7,251,587 CA Colorado 6 409,345 50.46 6 335,174 41.32 - 60,813 7.50 - 74,171 9.14 811,199 CO Connecticut 8 556,721 44.32 - 621,561 49.48 8 76,650 6.10 - -64,840 -5.16 1,256,232 CT Delaware 3 96,714 45.12 3 89,194 41.61 - 28,459 13.28 - 7,520 3.51 214,367 DE D.C. 3 31,012 18.18 - 139,566 81.82 3 - - - -108,554 -63.64 170,578 DC Florida 14 886,804 40.53 14 676,794 30.93 - 624,207 28.53 - 210,010 9.60 2,187,805 FL Georgia 12 380,111 30.40 - 334,440 26.75 - 535,550 42.83 12 -155,439 -12.43 1,250,266 GA Hawaii 4 91,425 38.70 - 141,324 59.83 4 3,469 1.47 - -49,899 -21.12 236,218 HI Idaho 4 165,369 56.79 4 89,273 30.66 - 36,541 12.55 - 76,096 26.13 291,183 ID Illinois 26 2,174,774 47.08 26 2,039,814 44.15 - 390,958 8.46 - 134,960 2.92 4,619,749 IL Indiana 13 1,067,885 50.29 13 806,659 37.99 - 243,108 11.45 - 261,226 12.30 2,123,597 IN Iowa 9 619,106 53.01 9 476,699 40.82 - 66,422 5.69 - 142,407 12.19 1,167,931 IA Kansas 7 478,674 54.84 7 302,996 34.72 - 88,921 10.19 - 175,678 20.13 872,783 KS Kentucky 9 462,411 43.79 9 397,541 37.65 - 193,098 18.29 - 64,870 6.14 1,055,893 KY Louisiana 10 257,535 23.47 - 309,615 28.21 - 530,300 48.32 10 -220,685 -20.11 1,097,450 LA Maine 4 169,254 43.07 - 217,312 55.30 4 6,370 1.62 - -48,058 -12.23 392,936 ME Maryland 10 517,995 41.94 - 538,310 43.59 10 178,734 14.47 - -20,315 -1.64 1,235,039 MD Massachusetts 14 766,844 32.89 - 1,469,218 63.01 14 87,088 3.73 - -702,374 -30.12 2,331,752 MA Michigan 21 1,370,665 41.46 - 1,593,082 48.18 21 331,968 10.04 - -222,417 -6.73 3,306,250 MI Minnesota 10 658,643 41.46 - 857,738 54.00 10 68,931 4.34 - -199,095 -12.53 1,588,510 MN Mississippi 7 88,516 13.52 - 150,644 23.02 - 415,349 63.46 7 -264,705 -40.44 654,509 MS Missouri 12 811,932 44.87 12 791,444 43.74 - 206,126 11.39 - 20,488 1.13 1,809,502 MO Montana 4 138,835 50.60 4 114,117 41.59 - 20,015 7.29 - 24,718 9.01 274,404 MT Nebraska 5 321,163 59.82 5 170,784 31.81 - 44,904 8.36 - 150,379 28.01 536,851 NE Nevada 3 73,188 47.46 3 60,598 39.29 - 20,432 13.25 - 12,590 8.16 154,218 NV New Hampshire 4 154,903 52.10 4 130,589 43.93 - 11,173 3.76 - 24,314 8.18 297,298 NH New Jersey 17 1,325,467 46.10 17 1,264,206 43.97 - 262,187 9.12 - 61,261 2.13 2,875,395 NJ New Mexico 4 169,692 51.85 4 130,081 39.75 - 25,737 7.86 - 39,611 12.10 327,281 NM New York 43 3,007,932 44.30 - 3,378,470 49.76 43 358,864 5.29 - -370,538 -5.46 6,790,066 NY North Carolina 13 627,192 39.51 12 464,113 29.24 - 496,188 31.26 1 131,004 8.25 1,587,493 NC North Dakota 4 138,669 55.94 4 94,769 38.23 - 14,244 5.75 - 43,900 17.71 247,882 ND Ohio 26 1,791,014 45.23 26 1,700,586 42.95 - 467,495 11.81 - 90,428 2.28 3,959,698 OH Oklahoma 8 449,697 47.68 8 301,658 31.99 - 191,731 20.33 - 148,039 15.70 943,086 OK Oregon 6 408,433 49.83 6 358,866 43.78 - 49,683 6.06 - 49,567 6.05 819,622 OR Pennsylvania 29 2,090,017 44.02 - 2,259,405 47.59 29 378,582 7.97 - -169,388 -3.57 4,747,928 PA Rhode Island 4 122,359 31.78 - 246,518 64.03 4 15,678 4.07 - -124,159 -32.25 385,000 RI South Carolina 8 254,062 38.09 8 197,486 29.61 - 215,430 32.30 - 38,632 5.79 666,982 SC South Dakota 4 149,841 53.27 4 118,023 41.96 - 13,400 4.76 - 31,818 11.31 281,264 SD Tennessee 11 472,592 37.85 11 351,233 28.13 - 424,792 34.02 - 47,800 3.83 1,248,617 TN Texas 25 1,227,844 39.87 - 1,266,804 41.14 25 584,269 18.97 - -38,960 -1.27 3,079,406 TX Utah 4 238,728 56.49 4 156,665 37.07 - 26,906 6.37 - 82,063 19.42 422,568 UT Vermont 3 85,142 52.75 3 70,255 43.53 - 5,104 3.16 - 14,887 9.22 161,404 VT Virginia 12 590,319 43.36 12 442,387 32.49 - 321,833 23.64 - 147,932 10.87 1,361,491 VA Washington 9 588,510 45.12 - 616,037 47.23 9 96,990 7.44 - -27,527 -2.11 1,304,281 WA West Virginia 7 307,555 40.78 - 374,091 49.60 7 72,560 9.62 - -66,536 -8.82 754,206 WV Wisconsin 12 809,997 47.89 12 748,804 44.27 - 127,835 7.56 - 61,193 3.62 1,691,538 WI Wyoming 3 70,927 55.76 3 45,173 35.51 - 11,105 8.73 - 25,754 20.25 127,205 WY TOTALS: 538 31,783,783 43.42 301 31,271,839 42.72 191 9,901,118 13.53 46 511,944 0.70 73,199,998 US Close states[edit] States where margin of victory was less than 5 percentage points (223 electoral votes): Missouri, 1.13% Texas, 1.27% Maryland, 1.64% Washington, 2.11% New Jersey, 2.13% Ohio, 2.28% Alaska, 2.64% Illinois, 2.92% (tipping point state) California, 3.08% Delaware, 3.51% Pennsylvania, 3.57% Wisconsin, 3.62% Tennessee, 3.83% States where margin of victory was more than 5 percentage points, but less than 10 percentage points (155 electoral votes): Kentucky, 5.14% Connecticut, 5.16% New York, 5.46% South Carolina, 5.79% Oregon, 6.05% Michigan, 6.73% Arkansas, 7.64% Nevada, 8.17% New Hampshire, 8.17% North Carolina, 8.25% West Virginia, 8.82% Montana, 9.01% Colorado, 9.14% Vermont, 9.22% Florida, 9.60% Notes: In Alabama, Wallace was the official Democratic Party nominee, while Humphrey ran on the ticket of short-lived National Democratic Party of Alabama, loyal to him as an official Democratic Party nominee[99][100] In North Carolina one Nixon Elector cast his ballot for George Wallace (President) and Curtis LeMay (Vice President).[101] National voter demographics[edit] NBC sample precincts 1968 election % Humphrey % Nixon % Wallace High income urban 29 63 5 Middle income urban 43 44 13 Low income urban 69 19 12 Rural (all income) 33 46 21 African-American neighborhoods 94 5 1 Italian neighborhoods 51 39 10 Slavic neighborhoods 65 24 11 Jewish neighborhoods 81 17 2 Unionized neighborhoods 61 29 10 Source: Congressional Quarterly Weekly Report. "Group Analysis of the 1968 Presidential Vote" XXVI, No. 48 (November 1968), p. 3218. Voter demographics in the South[edit] NBC sample precincts 1968 election: South only % Humphrey % Nixon % Wallace Middle income urban neighborhoods 28 40 32 Low income urban neighborhoods 57 18 25 Rural (all income) 29 30 41 African-American neighborhoods 95 3 2 Hispanic neighborhoods 92 7 1 Source: Congressional Quarterly Weekly Report. "Group Analysis of the 1968 Presidential Vote", XXVI, No. 48 (November 1968), p. 3218. See also[edit] 1968 United States House of Representatives elections 1968 United States Senate elections 1968 United States gubernatorial elections History of the United States (1964–1980) History of the United States Democratic Party History of the United States Republican Party List of Presidents of the United States First inauguration of Richard Nixon Sources[edit] White, Theodore H., The Making of the President 1968. Pocket Books, 1970. References[edit] ^ "Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections". uselectionatlas.org. Retrieved October 21, 2012. ^ a b c d e f g "Historical U.S. Presidential Elections 1789-2016". www.270towin.com. Retrieved February 1, 2019. ^ Editors, History com. "Voting Rights Act of 1965". HISTORY. Retrieved February 1, 2019.CS1 maint: extra text: authors list (link) ^ Thomas Adams Upchurch, Race relations in the United States, 1960–1980 (2008) p. 7-50 ^ "A Timeline of 1968: The Year That Shattered America". Smithsonian. Retrieved February 1, 2019. ^ James Westheider (2011). Fighting in Vietnam: The Experience of the US Soldier. Stackpole Books. pp. 136–38. ISBN 978-0-8117-0831-9. ^ Ben J. Wattenberg (2008). Fighting Words: A Tale of How Liberals Created Neo-Conservatism. Macmillan. p. 40. ISBN 978-1-4299-2463-4. ^ "Another Race To the Finish". The News & Observer. November 2, 2008. Archived from the original on January 15, 2009. Retrieved November 24, 2008. ^ The New York Times, February 18, 1968 ^ The New York Times, February 29, 1968 ^ "PERCY SHUNNING ACTIVE '68 ROLE – Wants to Stay Off Ballot in Presidential Primaries – Article – NYTimes.com". The New York Times. Select.nytimes.com. September 26, 1967. Retrieved August 25, 2015. ^ "Javits Says Favorite-Son Choice For '68 Is Still an Open Matter – Article – NYTimes.com". Select.nytimes.com. September 29, 1967. Retrieved August 25, 2015. ^ a b Perlstein. sfn error: no target: CITEREFPerlstein (help) ^ Parmet, pp. 503–508. sfn error: no target: CITEREFParmet (help) ^ Parmet, p. 509. sfn error: no target: CITEREFParmet (help) ^ "1968 Year In Review". UPI. Retrieved June 17, 2010. ^ "1968 | Presidential Campaigns & Elections Reference". Presidentialcampaignselectionsreference.wordpress.com. July 5, 2011. Retrieved November 27, 2014. ^ "Johnson Can Seek Two Full Terms". The Washington Post. November 24, 1963. p. A2. ^ Moore, William (November 24, 1963). "Law Permits 2 Full Terms for Johnson". The Chicago Tribune. p. 7. ^ a b "Man Of The Year: Lyndon B. Johnson, The Paradox of Power". Time Magazine. January 5, 1968. Retrieved June 22, 2013. ^ "Jan 30, 1968: Tet Offensive shakes Cold War confidence". History.com:This Day In History. Retrieved June 22, 2013. ^ a b c d https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0tc0wT9P7nc&t=367s ^ Sam Brown discussing his involvement in the "Clean for Gene" campaign. WGBH Open Vault. Retrieved July 20, 2010. ^ George Rising (1997). Clean for Gene: Eugene McCarthy's 1968 Presidential Campaign. Greenwood Publishing Group. pp. 122–. ISBN 978-0-275-95841-1. ^ https://potus-geeks.livejournal.com/955258.html ^ https://www.oregonlive.com/history/2016/05/robert_kennedy_eugene_mccarthy.html ^ https://time.com/5682760/incumbent-presidents-primary-challenges/ ^ Jeff Shesol (1998). Mutual Contempt: Lyndon Johnson, Robert Kennedy, and the Feud that Defined a Decade. W W Norton. pp. 545–47. ISBN 978-0-393-31855-5. ^ Lewis L. Gould (2010). 1968: The Election That Changed America. Government Institutes. pp. 16–18. ISBN 978-1-56663-910-1. ^ Randall Bennett Woods (2007). LBJ: architect of American ambition. Harvard University Press. pp. 834–35. ISBN 978-0-674-02699-5. ^ Robert Dallek (1998). Flawed Giant:Lyndon Johnson and His Times, 1961–1973. Oxford University Press. pp. 518–25. ISBN 978-0-19-982670-4. ^ Anthony J. Bennett (2013). The Race for the White House from Reagan to Clinton: Reforming Old Systems, Building New Coalitions. Palgrave Macmillan. p. 160. ISBN 978-1-137-26860-0. ^ a b Moore, Frazier (July 18, 2009). "Legendary CBS anchor Walter Cronkite dies at 92". GMA News. Associated Press. Retrieved June 22, 2013. ^ Wicker, Tom (January 26, 1997). "Broadcast News". The New York Times. Retrieved June 22, 2013. ^ a b Campbell, W. Joseph (July 9, 2012). "Chris Matthews invokes the 'if I've lost Cronkite' myth in NYT review". Retrieved June 22, 2013. ^ Walter Cronkite (1996). A Reporter's Life. Ballantine Books. p. 256. ISBN 978-0-394-57879-8. ^ a b c Bob Schieffer (January 6, 2004). This Just In: What I Couldn't Tell You on TV. Putnam Pub Group. ISBN 978-0-399-14971-9. Retrieved June 8, 2013. ^ Dallek (1998); Woods (2006); Gould (1993). ^ David (1968). "Paris peace negotiations: a two level game?". Review of International Studies. 37 (2): 577–599. ^ Robert Dallek, Nixon and Kissinger (2009) p 77 ^ Cook, Rhodes (2000). United States Presidential Primary Elections 1968–1996: A Handbook of Election Statistics. Washington, D.C.: CQ Press. pp. 12–13. ISBN 978-1-56802-451-6. ^ Abbe A. Debolt; James S. Baugess (2011). Encyclopedia of the Sixties: A Decade of Culture and Counterculture. ABC-CLIO. p. 607. ISBN 978-1-4408-0102-0. ^ "Sirhan Sirhan Seeks Release Or New Trial – TalkLeft: The Politics Of Crime". TalkLeft. November 27, 2011. Retrieved August 25, 2015. "Top stories from Canada and around the world |MSN Headlines". News.ca.msn.com. August 2, 2015. Retrieved August 25, 2015. Greenhill, Abby (November 28, 2011). "Sirhan Sirhan Says He Didn't Kill Bobby Kennedy in 1968 – Gather.com : Gather.com". News.gather.com. Retrieved August 25, 2015. [1] Archived May 2, 2014, at the Wayback Machine ^ Jack Newfield, interview with Terry Gross, Fresh Air from WHYY, National Public Radio, WHYY, Philadelphia, June 4, 1998. Excerpt rebroadcast on June 4, 2008. ^ a b c d e f g h "Our Campaigns – US President – D Primaries Race – Mar 12, 1968". Ourcampaigns.com. Retrieved November 3, 2008. ^ "White, pp. 377–378". Ourcampaigns.com. Retrieved June 17, 2010. ^ "AllPolitics – 1996 GOP NRC – All The Votes...Really". Cnn.com. Retrieved November 3, 2008. ^ "Our Campaigns – SD US President – D Primary Race – Jun 04, 1968". Ourcampaigns.com. Retrieved November 3, 2008. ^ "Our Campaigns – Candidate – Harold Everett Hughes". Ourcampaigns.com. Retrieved November 3, 2008. ^ a b c d Schlesinger, Arthur Jr. (1978). "Robert Kennedy and His Times". Cite journal requires |journal= (help) ^ "Our Campaigns – CA US President – D Primary Race – Jun 04, 1968". Ourcampaigns.com. Retrieved November 3, 2008. ^ "BobbyDarin.net/BobbyDarin.com – Bobby Darin & Bobby Kennedy". Bobbydarin.net. May 10, 1968. Retrieved June 17, 2010. ^ "Our Campaigns – US President – D Convention Race – Aug 26, 1968". Ourcampaigns.com. Retrieved November 3, 2008. ^ Frum, David (2000). How We Got Here: The '70s. New York: Basic Books. p. xxi. ISBN 978-0-465-04195-4. ^ B. Dan Wood; Soren Jordan (2017). Party Polarization in America: The War Over Two Social Contracts. p. 165. ^ Hill, John Paul (December 16, 2002). "A. B. "Happy" Chandler, George C. Wallace, and the Presidential Election of 1968". The Historian. 64 (34): 667–685. doi:10.1111/1540-6563.00010. ^ "Happy Chandler | biography – American politician and baseball commissioner". Britannica.com. June 15, 1991. Retrieved August 25, 2015. ^ Perlstein, Rick (2008). Nixonland: The Rise of a President and the Fracturing of America. ^ Joseph A. Aistrup, The southern strategy revisited: Republican top-down advancement in the South (2015). ^ Daniel S. Margolies (2012). A Companion to Harry S. Truman. p. 264. ^ Greenberg, David (October 22, 2001). "Civil Rights: Let 'Em Wiretap!". History News Network. ^ Frum, David (2000). How We Got Here: The '70s. New York, New York: Basic Books. p. 265. ISBN 978-0-465-04195-4. ^ Conrad Black, (2007), p. 525. ^ Laura Kalman (1990). Abe Fortas. Yale University Press. ISBN 978-0-300-04669-4. Retrieved October 20, 2008. ^ Thomas W. Evans (Summer 1993). "The All-Volunteer Army After Twenty Years: Recruiting in the Modern Era". Sam Houston State University. Archived from the original on August 8, 2013. Retrieved December 31, 2007. ^ Aitken, Jonathan (1996). Nixon: A Life. Regnery Publishing. ISBN 978-0-89526-720-7. pp. 396–397. ^ Ambrose, Stephen (1989). Nixon, Volume Two: The Triumph of a Politician 1962–1972. Simon & Schuster. pp. 264–266. ^ Time November 15, 1968 ^ Theodore H. White, The Making of the President, 1968 (1970) ^ a b Baker, Peter. "Nixon Tried to Spoil Johnson's Peace Talks in '68, Notes Show". New York Times. ^ Mark Lisheron. "In tapes, LBJ accuses Nixon of treason". Austin American-Statesman. December 5, 2008. "Johnson tells Sen. Everett Dirksen, the Republican minority leader, that it will be Nixon's responsibility if the South Vietnamese don't participate in the peace talks. 'This is treason,' LBJ says to Dirksen." ^ Robert "KC" Johnson. "Did Nixon Commit Treason in 1968? What The New LBJ Tapes Reveal". History News Network, January 26, 2009. Transcript from audio recording on YouTube of President Johnson: "This is treason." "I know." ^ Clark M. Clifford. Counsel to the President: A Memoir (May 21, 1991 ed.). Random House. p. 709. ISBN 978-0-394-56995-6. p. 582. "The activities of the Nixon team went far beyond the bounds of justifiable political combat. It constituted direct interference in the activities of the executive branch and the responsibilities of the Chief Executive, the only people with authority to negotiate on behalf of the nation. The activities of the Nixon campaign constituted a gross, even potentially illegal, interference in the security affairs of the nation by private individuals." ^ Robert Dallek (2007), Nixon and Kissinger: Partners in Power, HarperCollins, pp. 73-74. ^ a b US Department of State, Office of the Historian, "Foreign Relations of the United States, 1964–1968, Volume VII, Vietnam, September 1968–January 1969, November 1-12, 1968: South Vietnamese Abstention From the Expanded Peace Conference; the Anna Chennault Affair," https://history.state.gov/historicaldocuments/frus1964-68v07/ch5 ^ Diem Bui with David Chanoff (1999). In the Jaws of History (April 1, 1999 ed.). Indiana University Press. p. 367. ISBN 978-0-253-21301-3. p. 237. Waiting for me in the lobby was Anna Chennault. A few minutes later I was being introduced to Nixon and John Mitchell, his law partner and adviser. (…) Nixon (…) added that his staff would be in touch with me through John Mitchell and Anna Chennault. ^ Dallek, pp. 74-75. ^ Dallek, pp. 73-74. ^ Thomas Powers. "The Man who Kept the Secrets: Richard Helms & the CIA". Alfred A. Knopf, 1979, p.198. "during the week which ended Sunday, October 27 [1968], the National Security Agency intercepted a radio message from the South Vietnamese Embassy to Saigon explicitly urging (Nguyen Van) Thieu to stand fast against an agreement until after the election. As soon as Johnson learned of the cable he ordered the FBI to place Madame (Anna) Chennault under surveillance and to install a phone tap on the South Vietnamese Embassy" ^ Dallek, p. 75. ^ Robert "KC" Johnson. "Did Nixon Commit Treason in 1968? What the New LBJ Tapes Reveal". History News Network, January 26, 2009. Transcript from audio recording on YouTube of President Johnson: "Now, I can identify 'em, because I know who's doing this. I don't want to identify it. I think it would shock America if a principal candidate was playing with a source like this on a matter this important. (…) I don't want to do that." ^ a b Taylor, David (March 15, 2013). "The Lyndon Johnson tapes: Richard Nixon's 'treason'". BBC News. London. Retrieved March 18, 2013. ^ Jules Witcover. "The Making of an Ink-Stained Wretch: Half a Century Pounding the Political Beat". Johns Hopkins University Press, 2005, p131. "Johnson had turned over incriminating evidence about (Anna) Chennault's activities to (Hubert) Humphrey's for use in the final days of the campaign. The idea was that such an act of treason would sink Nixon and elect Humphrey. But Humphrey declined to use it, partly because he felt he could not reveal the sources of the classified material (…) Later, in his memoir, Humphrey recounted a memo of his own at the time: "I wonder if I should have blown the whistle on Anna Chennault and Nixon. I wish [his italics] I could have been sure. Damn Thieu. Dragging his feet this past weekend hurt us. I wonder if that call did it. If Nixon knew." ^ "In Tapes, Johnson Accused Nixon's Associates of Treason". The New York Times, December 4, 2008. Retrieved March 19, 2013. ^ a b c Leip, David. "1968 Presidential General Election Results". David Leip's Atlas of Presidential Elections. ^ "Presidential Election of 1916". www.270towin.com. Retrieved February 1, 2019. ^ "1968 Year In Review". UPI. Retrieved June 17, 2010. ^ "A Realigning Election? | RealClearPolitics". www.realclearpolitics.com. Retrieved February 1, 2019. ^ "Misunderstanding the Southern Realignment". RealClearPolitics.com. Retrieved March 19, 2014. ^ Lassiter, Matthew (2007). The Silent Majority: Suburban Politics in the Sunbelt. Princeton University Press. pp. 2, 17. ^ Gould (1993) p 165; White (1969) p 401 ^ Michael A. Cohen, American Maelstrom: The 1968 Election and the Politics of Division (2016) ^ "McGovern-Fraser Commission | Politics Matters". Retrieved February 1, 2019. ^ The Political Graveyard; Coös County Votes for President David Leip's Atlas of US Presidential Elections; Presidential Election, 2016 in New Hampshire ^ "The First (And Last) Serious Challenge to the Electoral College System". mentalfloss.com. December 6, 2014. Retrieved February 1, 2019. ^ A North Carolina faithless Republican elector voted for Wallace/LeMay ^ "Electoral Votes for President and Vice President". Senate Manual. Government Printing Office. 2005. Retrieved March 14, 2006. ^ "1968 Presidential General Election Data – National". Retrieved March 18, 2013. ^ "Our Campaigns – Political Party – Alabama National Democrat (NDPA)". Ourcampaigns.com. Retrieved November 3, 2008. ^ "Our Campaigns – AL US President Race – Nov 05, 1968". Ourcampaigns.com. Retrieved November 3, 2008. ^ "1968 Presidential General Election Results – North Carolina". Uselectionatlas.org. Retrieved November 3, 2008. Notes[edit] ^ a b Nixon's official state of residence was New York because he moved there to practice law after his defeat in the 1962 California gubernatorial election. During his first term as president, Nixon re-established his residency in California. Consequently, most reliable reference books, including the January 6, 1969 edition of the Congressional Record, list his home state as New York. Further reading[edit] Ambrose, Stephen E. (1987). Nixon: The Education of a Politician: 1962–1972. Brown, Stuart Gerry. The Presidency on Trial: Robert Kennedy's 1968 Campaign and Afterwards. U. Press of Hawaii, 1972. 155 pp. Burner, David and West, Thomas R. The Torch Is Passed: The Kennedy Brothers and American Liberalism. (1984). 307 pp. Carter, Dan T. (1995). The Politics of Rage: George Wallace, the Origins of the New Conservatism, and the Transformation of American Politics. ISBN 978-0-8071-2597-7. Chester, Lewis; Hodgson, Godfrey; Page, Bruce (1969). An American Melodrama: The Presidential Campaign of 1968. Viking Press. ISBN 978-0-670-11991-2. Cohen, Michael A. American Maelstrom: The 1968 Election and the Politics of Division (Oxford UP, 2016) excerpt and online review Converse, Philip E.; Miller, Warren E.; Rusk, Jerrold G.; Wolfe, Arthur C. (1969). "Continuity And Change In American Politics: Parties and Issues in the 1968 Election". American Political Science Review. 63 (4): 1083–1105. doi:10.2307/1955073. JSTOR 1955073. Gould, Lewis L. (1993). 1968: The Election that Changed America. Ivan R. Dee. ISBN 978-1-56663-010-8. Herzog, Arthur. McCarthy for President (1969) Farber, David (1988). Chicago '68. University of Chicago Press. ISBN 978-0-226-23800-5. Jamieson, Patrick E. "Seeing the Lyndon B. Johnson Presidency through the March 31, 1968 Withdrawal Speech." Presidential Studies Quarterly Vol 29#1 1999 pp. 134+ Kimball, Warren F. "The Election of 1968." Diplomatic History 2004 28(4): 513–528. ISSN 0145-2096 Fulltext online in SwetsWise, Ingenta and Ebsco. Comments by others at pp. 563–576; reply, p. 577. Kogin, Michael (Spring 1966). "Wallace and the Middle Class". Public Opinion Quarterly. 30 (1): 98. doi:10.1086/267384. LaFerber, Walter. The Deadly Bet: LBJ, Vietnam, and the 1968 Election (2005) short survey Lesher, Stephan. George Wallace: American Populist. (1994). 587 pp. Mayer, Jeremy D (2002). "Nixon Rides the Backlash to Victory: Racial Politics in the 1968 Presidential Campaign". Historian. 64 (3): 351–366. doi:10.1111/j.1540-6563.2002.tb01487.x. Nelson, Michael. Resilient America: Electing Nixon in 1968, Channeling Dissent, and Dividing Government (University Press of Kansas; 2014) 360 pages O'Mara, Margaret. Pivotal Tuesdays: Four Elections That Shaped the Twentieth Century (2015), compares 1912, 1932, 1968, 1992 in terms of social, economic, and political history Richardson, Darcy G. (2002). A Nation Divided: The 1968 Presidential Campaign. ISBN 978-0-595-23699-2. Rising, George (1997). Clean for Gene: Eugene McCarthy's 1968 Presidential Campaign. Praeger Publishers. ISBN 978-0-275-95841-1. Savage, Sean J. (2004). JFK, LBJ, and the Democratic Party. SUNY Albany Press. ISBN 978-0-7914-6169-3. Schlesinger, Arthur M., Jr. (1978). Robert Kennedy and His Times. Houghton Mifflin. ISBN 978-0-395-24897-3. Schumacher, Michael. The Contest: The 1968 Election and the War for America's Soul (U of Minnesota Press, 2018) 540 pp. online review Shesol, Jeff. Mutual Contempt: Lyndon Johnson, Robert Kennedy, and the Feud that Defined a Decade (1997) Small, Melvin. "The Election of 1968," Diplomatic History (2004) 28#4 pp 513–528, analysis of foreign-policy issues Solberg, Carl. Hubert Humphrey (2003), scholarly biography excerpt and text search Time. "Wallace's Army: The Coalition Of Frustration," Time October 18, 1968 Unger, Irwin; Unger, Debi (1988). Turning Point: 1968. Scribner's. ISBN 978-0-684-18696-2. White, Theodore H. (1969). The Making of the President—1968. Atheneum. ISBN 978-0-224-61796-3. , famous report by American journalist Woods, Randall. LBJ: Architect of American Ambition (2006) Primary sources[edit] Gallup, George H., ed. The Gallup Poll: Public Opinion, 1935–1971. 3 vols. Random House, 1972. press releases; Humphrey, Hubert H. (1976). The Education of a Public Man: My Life and Politics. Doubleday. ISBN 978-0-8166-1897-2. McCarthy, Eugene. The Year of the People (1969), memoir McGinniss, Joe (1969). The Selling of the President 1968. Trident Press. ISBN 978-0-671-82249-1. ; firsthand reporting Nixon, Richard (1978). RN: The Memoirs of Richard Nixon. ISBN 978-0-671-70741-5. ; primary source External links[edit] United States presidential election of 1968 at the Encyclopædia Britannica The Election Wall's 1968 Election Video Page 1968 popular vote by counties 1968 popular vote by states 1968 popular vote by states (with bar graphs) Campaign commercials from the 1968 election How close was the 1968 election? at the Wayback Machine (archived August 25, 2012) — Michael Sheppard, Massachusetts Institute of Technology "LBJ Tapes Implicate Nixon With Treason". ABC News. December 5, 2008, (video). Election of 1968 in Counting the Votes v t e (1964 ←) 1968 United States presidential election (→ 1972) Republican Party Convention Primaries Nominee Richard Nixon (campaign) VP nominee Spiro Agnew Candidates Frank Carlson Clifford P. Case Hiram Fong John Lindsay Ronald Reagan Jim Rhodes Nelson Rockefeller Winthrop Rockefeller George W. Romney campaign Harold Stassen John Volpe Democratic Party Convention (protests) Primaries Nominee Hubert Humphrey (campaign) VP nominee Edmund Muskie Candidates Roger D. Branigin John G. Crommelin Paul C. Fisher Lyndon B. Johnson Robert F. Kennedy (campaign) Thomas C. Lynch Eugene McCarthy (campaign) George McGovern Dan K. Moore Channing E. Phillips George Smathers Stephen M. Young American Independent Party Nominee George Wallace campaign VP nominee Curtis LeMay Other third party and independent candidates Communist Party Nominee Charlene Mitchell VP nominee Michael Zagarell Peace and Freedom Party Nominee Eldridge Cleaver VP nominee Douglas Fitzgerald Dowd Prohibition Party Nominee E. Harold Munn Socialist Labor Party Nominee Henning A. Blomen Socialist Workers Party Nominee Fred Halstead VP nominee Paul Boutelle Independents and other candidates Dick Gregory Pat Paulsen Pigasus Other 1968 elections: House Senate Gubernatorial v t e State and district results of the 1968 U.S. presidential election Candidates Richard Nixon Hubert Humphrey George Wallace Full list General articles Election timeline Democratic primaries Republican primaries Republican Convention Democratic Convention Local results Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Other 1968 elections House Senate Gubernatorial v t e (1966 ←) 1968 United States elections (→ 1970) President 1968 United States presidential election Democratic primaries Republican primaries Democratic convention Republican convention U.S. Senate Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maryland Missouri Nevada New Hampshire New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania South Carolina South Dakota Utah Vermont Washington Wisconsin U.S. House Alabama Alaska Arkansas Arizona California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming State governors Arizona Arkansas Delaware Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Missouri Montana New Hampshire New Mexico North Carolina North Dakota Rhode Island South Dakota Texas Utah Vermont Washington West Virginia Wisconsin v t e United States presidential elections Elections by year 1788–89 1792 1796 1800 1804 1808 1812 1816 1820 1824 1828 1832 1836 1840 1844 1848 1852 1856 1860 1864 1868 1872 1876 1880 1884 1888 1892 1896 1900 1904 1908 1912 1916 1920 1924 1928 1932 1936 1940 1944 1948 1952 1956 1960 1964 1968 1972 1976 1980 1984 1988 1992 1996 2000 2004 2008 2012 2016 2020 Elections by state Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington Washington, D.C. West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Primaries and caucuses Iowa caucuses New Hampshire primary Nevada caucuses South Carolina primary Super Tuesday Nominating conventions Brokered convention Convention bounce Superdelegate Electoral College and Popular vote Results Summary Elections in which the winner lost the popular vote Electoral College margins Electoral College results by state Electoral vote changes between elections Electoral vote recipients Popular vote margins Contingent election Faithless elector Unpledged elector Voter turnout Related topics Campaign slogans Historical election polling Election Day Major party tickets Major party losers Presidential debates October surprise Red states and blue states Swing state Election recount Vice presidential confirmations: 1973 1974 House elections Senate elections Gubernatorial elections v t e Notable third party performances in United States elections Presidential (since 1832) 1832 1848 1856 1860 1892 1912 1924 1948 1968 1980 1992 1996 Senatorial (since 1990) Virginia 1990 Alaska 1992 Arizona 1992 Hawaii 1992 Louisiana 1992 Ohio 1992 Arizona 1994 Minnesota 1994 Ohio 1994 Vermont 1994 Virginia 1994 Alaska 1996 Minnesota 1996 Arizona 2000 Massachusetts 2000 Minnesota 2000 Alaska 2002 Kansas 2002 Massachusetts 2002 Mississippi 2002 Oklahoma 2002 Virginia 2002 Oklahoma 2004 Connecticut 2006 Indiana 2006 Maine 2006 Vermont 2006 Arkansas 2008 Idaho 2008 Minnesota 2008 Oregon 2008 Alaska 2010 (Republican Write-In) Florida 2010 Indiana 2010 South Carolina 2010 Utah 2010 Indiana 2012 Maine 2012 Maryland 2012 Missouri 2012 Montana 2012 Vermont 2012 Kansas 2014 South Dakota 2014 Wyoming 2014 Alaska 2016 Arizona 2016 Idaho 2016 Indiana 2016 Kansas 2016 Maine 2018 New Mexico 2018 Vermont 2018 Gubernatorial (since 1990) Alaska 1990 Connecticut 1990 Kansas 1990 Maine 1990 New York 1990 Oklahoma 1990 Oregon 1990 Utah 1992 West Virginia 1992 Alaska 1994 Connecticut 1994 Hawaii 1994 Maine 1994 New Mexico 1994 Oklahoma 1994 Pennsylvania 1994 Rhode Island 1994 Vermont 1994 Alaska 1998 Maine 1998 Minnesota 1998 New York 1998 Pennsylvania 1998 Rhode Island 1998 Kentucky 1999 New Hampshire 2000 Vermont 2000 Arizona 2002 California 2002 Maine 2002 Minnesota 2002 New Mexico 2002 New York 2002 Oklahoma 2002 Vermont 2002 Wisconsin 2002 Alaska 2006 Illinois 2006 Maine 2006 Massachusetts 2006 Minnesota 2006 Texas 2006 Louisiana 2007 Vermont 2008 New Jersey 2009 Colorado 2010 Idaho 2010 Maine 2010 Massachusetts 2010 Minnesota 2010 Rhode Island 2010 Wyoming 2010 Kentucky 2011 Virginia 2013 Alaska 2014 Hawaii 2014 Maine 2014 Rhode Island 2014 Wyoming 2014 Maine 2018 Kansas 2018 Portal:Politics Third party (United States) Third party officeholders in the United States Third-party members of the United States House of Representatives v t e Richard Nixon 37th President of the United States (1969–1974) 36th Vice President of the United States (1953–1961) U.S. Senator from California (1950–1953) U.S. Representative for CA-12 (1947–1950) Presidency First inauguration Second inauguration Nixon Doctrine "Bring Us Together" Economic policies Nixon shock Tar Baby Option Environmental Protection Agency creation National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Space exploration 1971 National Cancer Act Vietnam War Cambodian bombing Paris Peace Accords "Peace with Honor" Vietnamization Silent majority Cold War period Linkage policy Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act 1970 Lincoln Memorial visit 1972 visit to China Shanghai Communiqué Détente 1972 Moscow Summit Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty SALT I Treaty Prevention of Nuclear War Agreement Threshold Test Ban Treaty Endangered Species Act National Commission on Marihuana and Drug Abuse War on Drugs Drug Enforcement Administration Enemies List list of opponents Operation CHAOS Watergate timeline White House tapes United States v. Nixon Senate Watergate Committee impeachment process Resignation speech Pardon State of the Union Address (1970 1973 1974) Wilson desk Judicial appointments Supreme Court controversies Executive Orders Presidential Proclamations Life and politics Richard Nixon Foundation Presidential Library and Museum Birthplace and boyhood home Checkers speech 1958 motorcade attack Kitchen Debate Operation 40 "Last press conference" Florida White House "La Casa Pacifica" Nixon Center Nixon v. General Services Administration Death and state funeral Books Six Crises (1962) Bibliography Elections U.S. House of Representatives: 1946 1948 1950 U.S. Senate 1962 California gubernatorial election GOP presidential primaries: 1960 1964 1968 1972 GOP National Conventions: 1952 1956 1960 1968 campaign 1972 Presidential elections: 1952 1956 1960 debates 1968 1972 Popular culture Nixon goes to China (phrase) Millhouse (1971 film) Four More Years (1972 film) Impeach the President (1973 song) White House Madness (1975 film) All the President's Men (1976 film) Secret Honor (1984 film) Nixon in China (1987 opera) Nixon (1995 film) Elvis Meets Nixon (1997 film) Dick (1999 film) Frost–Nixon interviews (2006 play, 2008 film) Our Nixon (2013 film) Elvis & Nixon (2016 film) U.S. Postage stamp Related Presidential Recordings and Materials Preservation Act Presidential Townhouse Richard Nixon mask Staff Jack Brennan (aide de camp) Manolo Sanchez (valet) Rose Mary Woods (secretary) Family Thelma "Pat" Ryan Nixon (wife) Tricia Nixon Cox (daughter) Julie Nixon Eisenhower (daughter) Frank Nixon (father) Hannah Nixon (mother) Donald Nixon (brother) Edward Nixon (brother) Donald A. Nixon (nephew) Christopher Nixon Cox (grandson) Jennie Eisenhower (granddaughter) ← Lyndon B. Johnson Gerald Ford → Category v t e Hubert Humphrey 38th Vice President of the United States (1964–1969) • United States Senator from Minnesota (1949–1964, 1971–1978) Political career Minnesota Democratic–Farmer–Labor Party 1948 Civil Rights speech Humphrey–Hawkins Full Employment Act Electoral history Democratic Party presidential primaries, 1960 1968 1972 Democratic National Convention 1960 1964 1968 protests 1972 United States presidential election 1964 1968 1968 presidential campaign (Edmund Muskie) Legacy Primary (1960 documentary) Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome Humphrey School of Public Affairs Hubert H. Humphrey Building Family and personal life Muriel Humphrey (wife) Hubert "Skip" Humphrey III (son) Category v t e George Wallace Family Lurleen Wallace George Wallace Jr. Cornelia Wallace Campaigns 1964 presidential campaign 1968 presidential campaign 1972 presidential campaign 1976 presidential campaign Miscellaneous 1963 Inaugural Address Stand in the Schoolhouse Door Foster Auditorium American Independent Party Arthur Bremer An Assassin's Diary George Wallace (1997 film) George Wallace Tunnel Authority control LCCN: sh2008109960 NARA: 10643278 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=1968_United_States_presidential_election&oldid=953445119" Categories: 1968 United States presidential election History of the United States (1964–1980) Presidency of Richard Nixon Hubert Humphrey November 1968 events Hidden categories: CS1 maint: extra text: authors list Harv and Sfn no-target errors Webarchive template wayback links CS1 errors: missing periodical Use mdy dates from February 2017 Elections using electoral votes Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from March 2013 Pages using bar box without float left or float right Articles with Encyclopædia Britannica links Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers Wikipedia articles with NARA identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages العربية Català Deutsch Español فارسی Français 한국어 Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Italiano עברית Kiswahili Nederlands 日本語 Norsk bokmål Polski Português Русский Simple English Suomi Svenska Türkçe Українська 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 27 April 2020, at 08:38 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view