https://www.nytimes.com/article/2020-campaign-primary-calendar-coronavirus.html#site-index
15 States Have Postponed Primaries During the Pandemic. One Has Canceled. - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics|15 States Have Postponed Primaries During the Pandemic. One Has Canceled. https://nyti.ms/2vkwU8a The Coronavirus Outbreak debugid:204 • Latest Updates Maps and Tracker New Symptom List Markets Life at Home Newsletter AdvertisementContinue reading the main story 15 States Have Postponed Primaries During the Pandemic. One Has Canceled. New York has called off its Democratic presidential primary. Here’s a list of the 15 other states that have rescheduled their contests. An early voting site in Cleveland on March 13. Ohio’s governor postponed the state’s March 17 primary election.Credit...Tony Dejak/Associated Press By Nick Corasaniti and Stephanie Saul April 27, 2020 The Latest: New York officials canceled the state’s Democratic presidential primary. As the coronavirus pandemic upends the presidential campaign, states across the country have postponed primary elections and expanded vote-by-mail options, citing the difficulty of holding elections during the outbreak. With the Democratic presidential race settled, one state, New York, has now canceled its presidential primary. Fifteen other states and one territory — Alaska, Connecticut, Delaware, Georgia, Hawaii, Indiana, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, New Jersey, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, West Virginia, Wyoming and Puerto Rico — have either pushed back their presidential primaries or switched to voting by mail with extended deadlines. Some states have even postponed their primaries multiple times, as the pandemic continues. But Wisconsin forged ahead with its elections on April 7 after state Republicans blocked efforts to postpone voting there. Three other states — Arizona, Florida and Illinois — held elections on March 17, as the coronavirus crisis was beginning to mount in the United States. The remaining presidential primaries have been rendered largely irrelevant since Bernie Sanders dropped out of the Democratic race on April 8, establishing Joseph R. Biden Jr. as the presumptive nominee. But some states also have local elections coming up. Tom Perez, the Democratic National Committee chairman, has urged states with upcoming contests to expand their use of voting by mail, no-excuse absentee voting, curbside ballot drop-offs and early voting. The committee also rescheduled the party’s national convention, from mid-July to mid-August. The D.N.C.’s rules committee is expected to meet in the coming weeks to approve waivers for states that move their primaries past June 9, the party’s original deadline for holding nominating contests. Here’s a running update of major changes in an election transformed, including rescheduled primaries and caucuses and a few other key races. You can also track our full primary election calendar. Canceled: New York presidential primary March 17: Arizona, Florida, Illinois (voted) April 7: Wisconsin (voted) April 10: Alaska (voted entirely by mail) April 17: Wyoming (now voting entirely by mail) April 28: Ohio (postponed from March 17) May 2: Guam (caucuses), Kansas May 12: Nebraska May 19: Oregon May 22: Hawaii (now voting entirely by mail) June 2: Delaware (new date), D.C., Indiana (new date), Maryland (new date), Montana, New Mexico, Pennsylvania (new date), Rhode Island (new date), South Dakota June 6: Virgin Islands (caucuses) June 9: Georgia (new date), West Virginia (new date) June 23: Kentucky (new date), Virginia congressional primaries (new date) July 7: New Jersey (postponed from June 2) July 11: Louisiana (postponed from April 4) July 14: Alabama Republican primary runoff for U.S. Senate seat (postponed from March 31) Aug. 11: Connecticut primary (postponed from April 28) T.B.D.: Puerto Rico (postponed from March 29) Week of Aug. 17: Democratic National Convention (postponed from July 13-16) Aug. 24-27: Republican National Convention Canceled: New York presidential primary New York officials canceled the state’s Democratic presidential primary, calling the vote a beauty contest that the state can ill afford in the face of the coronavirus epidemic. Officials had struggled with the decision, which was certain to anger some supporters of Mr. Sanders, but they ultimately concluded that the risk of spreading coronavirus was too great to justify holding an election. No other contest is on ballots in about 20 of the state’s 62 counties on June 23, meaning that voters in those counties will now have no need to go to the polls. (The presidential primary was originally scheduled for April 28, but had been postponed to June 23.) March 17: Arizona, Florida, Illinois (voted) The three states held their primaries as scheduled (and Joseph R. Biden Jr. won all of them). Voting in major cities in Illinois was rife with confusion and turnout in many areas was significantly lower than expected, leading to complaints from poll workers and clashes between Chicago officials and the statehouse. But Florida and Arizona exceeded turnout levels seen in the 2016 Democratic primary, despite the coronavirus outbreak. Both states had invested heavily in early voting systems, and they encouraged early voting and voting by mail as the outbreak worsened, in order to help reduce crowds at polling places on Primary Day. April 7: Wisconsin (voted) Long lines, health jitters, flaring tempers and a dose of chaos and confusion marked Wisconsin’s presidential primary and local elections on April 7, as voters were forced to choose between staying safe during a pandemic and exercising their civic duty. Wisconsin Democrats wanted to extend absentee voting and even postpone the election altogether, but Republicans successfully blocked both in court. Democrats feared that their voters would be most affected, yet they got the result they wanted: A liberal challenger scored a shocking upset in a State Supreme Court race, unseating a Trump-backed incumbent. Latest Updates: Coronavirus Outbreak in the U.S. 100 days, one million confirmed infections, and a country transformed. New C.D.C. statistics reveal more about the true toll. A report on the U.S. economy is going to be bad, and the Fed is weighing further interventions. See more updates Updated 48m ago More live coverage: Global Markets New York (The election was also the last competitive contest of the Democratic presidential primary, with Mr. Biden easily beating Mr. Sanders, who had dropped out of the race before the results were announced.) Gov. Tony Evers of Wisconsin, a Democrat, had issued an executive order postponing in-person voting and extending to June the deadline for absentee ballots. But Republican leaders succeeded in getting the state’s top court to stay the decree. In a separate decision, the U.S. Supreme Court’s conservative-leaning majority ruled against extending the deadline for absentee voting by six days, saying such a change “fundamentally alters the nature of the election.” The court’s liberals dissented, with Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg writing that “the court’s order, I fear, will result in massive disenfranchisement.” Final tallies showed that thousands of Wisconsinites lost their chance to vote. April 10: Alaska (voted entirely by mail) The Alaska Democratic Party canceled in-person voting in its presidential primary, originally scheduled for April 4, and mounted an effort to expand voting by mail. It also extended the deadline for the party to receive ballots by more than two weeks, to April 10 from March 24. Mr. Biden won. April 17: Wyoming (now voting entirely by mail) Wyoming Democrats suspended the in-person portion of their caucuses, scheduled for April 4. The party counted ballots received by April 17. Mr. Biden won. April 28: Ohio (postponed from March 17) Ohio moved its presidential primary election to late April and is conducting it almost entirely by mail. The governor and top state health officials ordered the polls closed on the original Primary Day in March, citing an unacceptable health risk posed by crowded voting locations. While Gov. Mike DeWine had initially proposed a June 2 primary as a substitute, the Ohio legislature moved the official date to April 28. Officials planned to mail postcards to approximately 7.8 million registered voters with instructions for applying for a ballot. Ballots postmarked by April 27 will be counted. Only those voters who are disabled or who do not have a permanent address will be allowed to vote in person, by appearing at their local elections boards. Ohio’s secretary of state, Frank LaRose, and voting rights advocates have criticized the new timetable. Mr. LaRose, who had favored a June 2 primary, called it “disappointing” that the legislature had “significantly reduced the time to bring this primary to a close.” May 2: Guam (caucuses), Kansas May 12: Nebraska May 19: Oregon May 22: Hawaii (now voting entirely by mail) Hawaii Democrats announced they were canceling in-person voting for the presidential primary in response to the coronavirus outbreak. The state party will be mailing out a “third round” of ballots and is encouraging voters to register before April 4, with the deadline for returning ballots May 22. June 2: Delaware (new date), D.C., Indiana (new date), Maryland (new date), Montana, New Mexico, Pennsylvania (new date), Rhode Island (new date), South Dakota Delaware primary (postponed from April 28) Gov. John Carney postponed the Delaware presidential primary election to early June through a state of emergency declaration. “Delawareans have a basic, fundamental right to vote,” Mr. Carney said in a statement. “Today’s order will preserve that right and allow Delawareans to vote by absentee ballot in the presidential primary on June 2.” Mr. Carney’s order allows voters concerned about the coronavirus to request an absentee ballot. This page provides information about applying for one. Indiana primary (postponed from May 5) Gov. Eric J. Holcomb of Indiana signed an executive order suspending the state’s primary elections until June 2. The presidential primary was originally scheduled for May 5. The governor announced the postponement of the primary with members of the Indiana Democratic and Republican parties. “The right of citizens to elect their leaders in a free and open election is one of the cornerstones of America,” Mr. Holcomb said. “In order to balance that right with the safety of county employees, poll workers and voters, delaying Indiana’s primary election is the right move as we continue to do all we can to protect Hoosiers’ health.” Officials also announced that the state would expand the option to vote by mail to all voters for the upcoming primary election, and that any mail-in ballots previously printed with a May 5 date on them would still be valid. Maryland primary (postponed from April 28) Gov. Larry Hogan announced that the April 28 primary would instead be held on June 2. Limited polling places will be open to accommodate disabled voters and those without permanent addresses. Gov. Hogan urged all others to vote by mail. “Like other states have done, all the primary elections will be postponed until June, which gives everyone time to prepare,” Mr. Hogan said. “Free and fair elections are the very foundation of American democracy, and while there are many valid reasons for unease and uncertainty right now, ensuring that the voices of Maryland citizens are heard shouldn’t be one of them.” Mr. Hogan said that a special election in Maryland’s Seventh Congressional District to replace the late Representative Elijah E. Cummings would not be rescheduled from April 28. That election also will be run mostly by mail. Pennsylvania primary (postponed from April 28) Gov. Tom Wolf signed a bill postponing the state’s presidential primary election from April 28 to June 2. State lawmakers had unanimously approved the delay, citing the pleas of county elections officials, who said the uncertainty surrounding the outbreak made it impossible to gear up for an election by the end of April. The delay also affects a number of other elections in Pennsylvania, including congressional primaries. The Pennsylvania secretary of state has reminded voters of the state’s mail-in ballot option, which permits any voter to request a ballot. Rhode Island primary (postponed from April 28) Gov. Gina Raimondo signed an executive order to move the state’s presidential primary election from April to June. “Last week, the Board of Elections requested that the presidential primary election be postponed from April 28 to June 2 and that the election take place primarily by mail ballot,” Ms. Raimondo said on Twitter. “I am following the advice of the Board of Elections, and will sign an executive order to do this.” Nellie M. Gorbea, the Rhode Island secretary of state, said the state would “send all registered voters a mail ballot application with a postage-paid return envelope.” June 6: Virgin Islands (caucuses) June 9: Georgia (new date), West Virginia (new date) Georgia (postponed from March 24) Georgia’s secretary of state has postponed the presidential primary election for a second time in an effort to protect the public from possible coronavirus exposure. The secretary, Brad Raffensperger, had first moved the primary from March 24 to May 19. After Gov. Brian Kemp extended the state’s public health state of emergency, Mr. Raffensperger delayed the primary again, to June 9. He said it was the latest it could be rescheduled. Mr. Raffensperger said in-person voting would proceed on June 9, but he has also mailed absentee ballot request forms to 6.9 million active voters. “I certainly realize that every difficulty will not be completely solved by the time in-person voting begins for the June 9 election, but elections must happen even in less than ideal circumstances,” he said. West Virginia (postponed from May 12) Gov. Jim Justice, a Republican, announced at a news briefing that West Virginia would postpone its election for 27 days, from May 12 to June 9. “We have voted in wartime and in peace and in absolute tough situations,” Mr. Justice said, adding that older voters, especially, “value the treasure of being able to vote. We often take it for granted.” Mr. Justice said he was hopeful that the June 9 election would see a large turnout at polling places, but added that he was extending the deadline to obtain an absentee ballot for those who are unable to make it to the polls. June 23: Kentucky (new date), Virginia congressional primaries (new date) Kentucky primary (postponed from May 19) Kentucky’s secretary of state, Michael G. Adams, announced the state would delay its primary election to June 23 in a video on Twitter. “Postponing the primary was not an easy decision, but the Republican secretary of state and Democratic governor agreed, and so do county clerks from both parties,” Mr. Adams said. “My hope is that this delay will allow us to have a normal election. Even if not, this delay will allow me, the State Board of Elections and our county clerks time to assess what changes we must make to ensure a successful primary election.” Virginia congressional primaries (postponed from June 9) Virginia’s elections scheduled for June 9 have been postponed until June 23, Gov. Ralph Northam announced. The state’s presidential primary was held March 3, before the risk of coronavirus became widely realized in the United States. The remaining elections include House of Representatives primaries and a Republican primary to pick the candidate who will compete against Senator Mark Warner in the fall. July 7: New Jersey (postponed from June 2) New Jersey has postponed its presidential primary from June 2 to July 7, extending the Democrats’ primary calendar deeper into the summer amid the coronavirus outbreak. The decision by Gov. Philip D. Murphy to delay the primary is a signal from a major Democratic state that in-person voting may not be safe by June. The rescheduled election would be the first time in the modern history of the primary system that a state contest is held in July. After the D.N.C. announced that it would postpone the party’s convention from July to August, officials in New Jersey saw the move as a way to give states some breathing room to put off their primaries further. Mr. Murphy is announced an executive order postponing the primary and extending deadlines for voting by mail to line up with the new date. He signed an expansive vote-by-mail law in 2018, and updated it in January, to automatically send mail ballots to any voter who had requested one during the previous election. The state has allowed voters to request mail ballots for any reason for years. July 11: Louisiana (postponed from April 4) Louisiana has postponed its April 4 primary twice: first to June 20, and then even further, to July 11, buying more time in hopes the coronavirus pandemic will dissipate. Officials said they were working on a plan that would broaden the use of early voting and mail ballots. When Louisiana rescheduled its primary for the first time, in mid-March, it was the first state to adjust its election calendar in response to the disease’s spread. July 14: Alabama Republican primary runoff for U.S. Senate seat (postponed from March 31) Gov. Kay Ivey postponed the Republican runoff battle for a U.S. Senate seat, which pits former Attorney General Jeff Sessions against Tommy Tuberville, a former college football coach and ESPN analyst. The new date for the runoff is July 14. The winner will face Senator Doug Jones, a Democrat, in a race that is closely watched because it could be a chance for Republicans to pick up a Senate seat in a red state. President Trump has endorsed Mr. Tuberville against his onetime attorney general, Mr. Sessions, a longtime politician in Alabama who served in the U.S. Senate from 1997 to 2017. Aug. 11: Connecticut primary (postponed from April 28) Gov. Ned Lamont announced that Connecticut was postponing its presidential primary for a second time, this time to Aug. 11 — the Tuesday before the Democrats’ rescheduled national convention. The state already has primaries scheduled that day for other federal, state and local races. By the time of Mr. Lamont’s decision, New Jersey had already extended the Democrats’ calendar deeper into the summer than ever before, pushing its primary to July. Connecticut would be the first state to hold its nominating contest in August in the history of the modern primary system. “To protect the health and safety of voters, poll workers, and the most vulnerable populations, it just makes most sense to extend the date out to August,” Mr. Lamont said in a statement. He had previously pushed the primary to early June from its original date, April 28. T.B.D.: Puerto Rico (postponed from March 29) After first postponing the presidential primary election to April 26 from the original date of March 29, officials in Puerto Rico announced the contest would be delayed indefinitely as they monitored the virus’s spread. Charles Rodríguez, the chairman of the Puerto Rico Democratic Party, said the decision by the Democratic National Committee to delay the party’s national convention until August gives extra time to hold the territory’s election. Gov. Wanda Vázquez had signed a resolution postponing the primary election to April 26. But the resolution, approved by the Puerto Rico Legislature, gave the party and the president of the Puerto Rico State Commission on Elections authority to further delay the primary without requiring new action by the Legislature. Week of Aug. 17: Democratic National Convention (postponed from July 13-16) The Democratic National Committee postponed its national convention because of the coronavirus, moving it from mid-July to mid-August. The convention will still be held in Milwaukee, as planned, officials said. An August convention is likely to be smaller than the planned July event. One senior Democratic official said the event would probably be a “bare minimum” convention, with scores of people who had planned to come staying away either because of health concerns or because they had other plans for mid-August. Aug. 24-27: Republican National Convention Republicans still plan to gather in Charlotte, N.C., to renominate President Trump. Are we missing something? Let us know at onpolitics@nytimes.com. Reporting was contributed by Maggie Astor, Reid J. Epstein, Shane Goldmacher, Astead W. Herndon, Patricia Mazzei and Matt Stevens. The Coronavirus Outbreak Frequently Asked Questions and Advice Updated April 11, 2020 When will this end? This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days. How can I help? The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.) What should I do if I feel sick? If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. Should I wear a mask? The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. How do I get tested? If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. How does coronavirus spread? It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face. Is there a vaccine yet? No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away. What makes this outbreak so different? Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard. What if somebody in my family gets sick? If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently. Should I stock up on groceries? Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home. Can I go to the park? Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea. Should I pull my money from the markets? That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years. What should I do with my 401(k)? Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions