https://www.nytimes.com/by/nick-corasaniti
Nick Corasaniti - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Today’s Paper AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Nick Corasaniti Nick Corasaniti is a domestic correspondent covering national politics for The New York Times. More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Latest Search Search Clear this text input On Politics Media Watch Digital Ad Strategy Shows Impact on Voters’ Views of Trump Here’s a deeper look at how the Barometer team at Acronym is testing the impact of its Facebook ads. By Nick Corasaniti How a Digital Ad Strategy That Helped Trump Is Being Used Against Him A former Facebook employee is using a tool he employed to help President Trump win to conduct tests for a progressive group, Acronym, dedicated to ousting Mr. Trump from office. By Nick Corasaniti New York Board of Elections Cancels Democratic Presidential Primary The State Board of Elections scrapped the state’s June 23 Democratic nominating contest, citing the risk of spreading coronavirus, in a move opposed by supporters of Bernie Sanders. By Stephanie Saul and Nick Corasaniti He Got Off the Table After Cancer Surgery to Take On the Virus Gov. Philip Murphy of New Jersey is skipping a restful recovery to lead the state in the crisis, even as he remains in Andrew Cuomo’s shadow. By Nick Corasaniti On Politics Media Watch Coronavirus Takes Over Political Advertising Political campaigns were reluctant to focus too heavily on the coronavirus outbreak. What changed? By Nick Corasaniti At Least 7 in Wisconsin Got Coronavirus During Voting, Officials Say Milwaukee health officials said six voters and one poll worker contracted the coronavirus from participating in Election Day, which was held despite a stay-at-home order issued throughout the state. By Nick Corasaniti and Reid J. Epstein On Politics Media Watch Look to Wisconsin for Lessons on a Digital Campaign During a Pandemic “Democrats were organizing with every tool that didn’t require crossing the six-foot social distancing barrier,” the chair of the state Democratic Party said. By Nick Corasaniti How a Supreme Court Decision Curtailed the Right to Vote in Wisconsin The state’s final vote tallies show that the justices’ decision not to extend the mail voting deadline amid the coronavirus resulted in the disenfranchisement of thousands of voters. By Jim Rutenberg and Nick Corasaniti New Trump Ad Suggests a Campaign Strategy Amid Crisis: Xenophobia The ad, which calls Joe Biden soft on China and falsely suggests a former governor of Washington is Chinese, shows that President Trump plans to continue exploiting racial discord in his re-election bid. By Nick Corasaniti, Jeremy W. Peters and Annie Karni Inside Wisconsin’s Election Mess: Thousands of Missing or Nullified Ballots As Wisconsin scrambled to expand voting by mail for its election on Tuesday, many absentee voters said their ballots went undelivered. By Nick Corasaniti and Stephanie Saul Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Follow Elsewhere NYTnickctwitter page for NYTnickc nick.corasanitifacebook page for nick.corasaniti Feedback? Questions? Include your name, the article headline, and your message. Email Author Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions