https://www.nytimes.com/by/stephanie-saul
Stephanie Saul - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Today’s Paper Stephanie Saul Stephanie Saul covers national politics. Since joining The New York Times in 2005, she has also written about the pharmaceutical industry, education and the illicit foreign money fueling Manhattan’s real estate boom. Previously she worked at Newsday, where she won a Pulitzer Prize for investigative reporting. AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Latest Search Search Clear this text input New York Board of Elections Cancels Democratic Presidential Primary The State Board of Elections scrapped the state’s June 23 Democratic nominating contest, citing the risk of spreading coronavirus, in a move opposed by supporters of Bernie Sanders. By Stephanie Saul and Nick Corasaniti News Analysis Does Vote-by-Mail Favor Democrats? No. It’s a False Argument by Trump. Even some Republican officials, disagreeing with president, say that vote-by-mail has not hurt the G.O.P. in elections. By Reid J. Epstein and Stephanie Saul Inside Wisconsin’s Election Mess: Thousands of Missing or Nullified Ballots As Wisconsin scrambled to expand voting by mail for its election on Tuesday, many absentee voters said their ballots went undelivered. By Nick Corasaniti and Stephanie Saul Trump Is Pushing a False Argument on Vote-by-Mail Fraud. Here Are the Facts. As the coronavirus pandemic accelerates a national trend toward voting by mail, experts say it can be conducted safely, despite Republican claims of corruption. By Stephanie Saul and Reid J. Epstein Cuomo Postpones New York’s Primary Election to June 23 Because of Coronavirus New York became the latest state to move its primary in an attempt to limit the risk of spreading the virus. By Stephanie Saul ‘Your Health or the Right to Vote’: A Battle in Wisconsin as Its Primary Nears As many states postpone primaries amid the coronavirus outbreak, Wisconsin is plowing ahead with plans to vote on April 7. Now the governor wants to send everyone an absentee ballot — in under two weeks. By Nick Corasaniti and Stephanie Saul Voting by Mail Is the Hot New Idea. Is There Time to Make It Work? The coronavirus has left states rapidly searching for ways to protect democracy’s most sacred institution. By Nick Corasaniti and Stephanie Saul Democrats Sue Wisconsin Officials to Extend Deadlines for Early Voting The state Democratic Party and the Democratic National Committee sued elections officials to extend voting deadlines ahead of Wisconsin’s April 7 primary because of the coronavirus crisis. By Nick Corasaniti and Stephanie Saul Illinois Stumbles as States See Light Voter Turnout, With Many Ballots in the Mail Florida, Illinois and Arizona pressed ahead with their presidential primary elections on Tuesday, but chaos and confusion in Illinois sent in-person turnout diving amid coronavirus fears. By Nick Corasaniti, Stephanie Saul, Matt Stevens and Reid J. Epstein Ohio’s Governor Postpones Primary as Health Emergency Is Declared Over Virus Gov. Mike DeWine ignored a court ruling and said the state’s health director was closing the polls on Tuesday based on worries that the coronavirus placed voters and poll workers in potential danger. By Nick Corasaniti and Stephanie Saul Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Follow Elsewhere stefsaultwitter page for stefsaul Feedback? Questions? Include your name, the article headline, and your message. Email Author Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions