https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/17/us/politics/biden-florida-illinois-primary.html
Biden Sweeps Three States and Takes Commanding Lead, as Virus Reshapes American Politics - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics|Biden Sweeps Three States and Takes Commanding Lead, as Virus Reshapes American Politics https://nyti.ms/2xFuMZs Latest Results National Map Delegate Count Election Calendar Who’s Running AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Biden Sweeps Three States and Takes Commanding Lead, as Virus Reshapes American Politics With a broad coalition, Joseph R. Biden Jr. defeated Bernie Sanders in Florida, Illinois and Arizona, in a rout that could add to pressure on Mr. Sanders to end his campaign. Video transcript Back bars 0:00/4:47 -4:47 transcript Joe Biden Will Probably Win the Democratic Nomination. Here’s How He Did It. Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s winning streak has now given him a lead that will be nearly impossible for Senator Bernie Sanders to overcome. [MUSIC PLAYING] “Good morning.” “Good morning.” “Good morning.” So this is Joe Biden in January of 2017 during his last few weeks as vice president. “Do we know [INAUDIBLE]” He was surprised with the Presidential Medal of Freedom. “Hey, guys.” And he was headed home to Delaware. “Back on Amtrak.” Fast forward to the present, and it now looks pretty clear that Joe Biden will be the Democratic nominee for president. The path to victory has continued to narrow for Bernie Sanders. So how did we get here? And how did Joe Biden pull it off? The campaign begins after the 2018 midterm elections. “The Democrats will win the majority in the U.S. House of Representatives —” They are determined, more than ever, to take the fight in 2020 to Donald Trump. “You know, the Democrats are AWOL. They’re missing in action.” “Today, I am announcing my candidacy for president —” Biden enters the race as a clear front-runner, lifted by the positive feelings that so many Democrats have about his role during the Obama administration. “I’m— I’m paying for Joe, so don’t take his money.” [LAUGHTER] But there are persistent questions about just how ready he is for a campaign in 2020 and just how effectively he can defend his very, very long record in government. “I’m going to now direct this at Vice President Biden.” He is on the defensive over and over. “Do you agree today that you were wrong to oppose busing in America then?” “No.” Challenged by other candidates. “Are you forgetting—” “It’s automatic to be enforced.” ”—what you said two minutes ago?” Biden’s greatest difficulties come in the first states to vote, Iowa and New Hampshire. And these are places that really reward candidates with strong organization on the ground. Throughout the summer and the fall, we hear, over and over, from people in Iowa and New Hampshire, that Joe Biden does not have that kind of organization. And then the night of the caucuses happened. He comes in fourth place in Iowa. And when the campaign moves to New Hampshire, he fares even worse. He is in fifth place. Much of the political world, essentially, counts out Joe Biden. They see that his fund-raising has dried up. They see that his poll numbers have crashed. “Now we’re going on to South Carolina and win. And now we’re going to take this back.” And Biden’s campaign keep saying, wait until South Carolina, a real turning point. “Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, South Carolina.” When that moment of victory came in South Carolina, it seemed to remind millions of people, all at once, of why they liked Joe Biden in the first place and to remind them in a convincing enough way for many of them to change their minds about who they were going to vote for in a matter of days, leading to just a total turnaround in this race. “I am ending my campaign and endorsing Joe Biden.” Two major candidates almost immediately drop out of the race. Then comes Super Tuesday. He wins 10 of the 14 states, some of them by absolutely enormous margins. And that’s when Joe Biden goes from being the comeback kid to a strong front-runner once again. “Who’s ready to go to the center of the arena, who is our best shot to beat Donald Trump.” And from there, Joe Biden has only continued to widen his delegate lead. He persuaded the significant majority of Democratic voters that he was, by far, the strongest candidate to oppose Donald Trump in the general election. He put together a powerful coalition that combined some of the most loyal constituencies in the Democratic Party, especially African-Americans and women. “Folks, the vote is in your hands, not a joke. You can control this outcome.” With some of the newer constituencies that have supported Democrats since President Trump’s election, moderate suburban white voters who greatly preferred Joe Biden to Bernie Sanders. Biden has emerged as the likely Democratic nominee at exactly the moment that the coronavirus has brought the campaign almost to a halt. “That means we have to do testing. We have to get the testing kits up and ready.” “And we’ll lead with science.” Biden’s campaign did not run the strongest campaign operationally. He was not a flawless candidate. “Now, now, shush.” But a lot of voters knew him well enough, or felt they did, to look past a lot of that and to embrace him in the end as what they saw as a safe choice. This has been a wild campaign so far. And now, with the coronavirus, there are even more questions arising about the campaign going forward and the election. Go to nytimes.com/2020 to keep up with our reporters all around the country. Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s winning streak has now given him a lead that will be nearly impossible for Senator Bernie Sanders to overcome.CreditCredit...Alicia Vera for The New York Times By Alexander Burns and Jonathan Martin March 17, 2020 Joseph R. Biden Jr. easily defeated Senator Bernie Sanders in three major primaries on Tuesday, all but extinguishing Mr. Sanders’s chances for a comeback, as anxious Americans turned out to vote amid a series of cascading disruptions from the coronavirus pandemic. Mr. Biden, the former vice president, won by wide margins in Florida and Illinois and also carried Arizona, sweeping the night and achieving a nearly insurmountable delegate lead. The emphatic outcome could greatly intensify pressure on Mr. Sanders to end his campaign and allow Democrats to unify behind Mr. Biden as their presumptive nominee. The routs in Florida and Illinois, two of the biggest prizes on the national map, represented both a vote of confidence in Mr. Biden from most Democrats, and a blunt rejection of Mr. Sanders’s candidacy by the kind of large, diverse states he would have needed to capture to broaden his appeal beyond the ideological left. Mr. Sanders, of Vermont, has struggled since his first presidential campaign in 2016 to win over black voters in larger numbers and to persuade voters who do not share his ethos of democratic socialism that he can be trusted to lead the party into the general election. In the two biggest states voting on Tuesday, Florida and Illinois, Mr. Sanders failed. Mr. Biden carried Illinois by a wide margin, keeping intact his winning streak in the large Midwestern primary states, after previously winning in Minnesota and Michigan. And the victory in Florida was a particularly sharp repudiation of Mr. Sanders; many moderate and conservative Hispanic voters in the state had recoiled from his past praise of leftist governments in Latin America, including his admiring remarks about certain achievements of Fidel Castro’s Cuba. But the day of voting may have been most notable for the disruptions to the electoral calendar. The turmoil caused by the coronavirus upended plans for a primary election in Ohio on Tuesday, where state officials postponed voting in an abrupt maneuver that barely survived last-minute legal scrutiny. Four other states have also taken steps to delay their primary elections until late this spring, with Maryland becoming the latest to push back voting. In the states that did vote, there were signs that the virus had dampened voter turnout, and that the Democratic presidential campaigns and other party leaders were not engaged in the traditional all-out push to drive supporters to the polls. Still, more than a million people cast ballots early or by mail in advance of Tuesday’s primaries, according to election officials in the three states, suggesting that the contests could represent a clear enough statement on the trajectory of the Democratic campaign. Live Primary Election Results: Florida, Illinois and Arizona Get the latest primary results form Florida, Illinois and Arizona on March 17. It made for an extraordinary day in the country’s electoral history, featuring candidates who could not campaign in public and party officials who were navigating the delicate line between protecting public safety and the civic right to nominate a candidate for the nation’s highest office. In a gesture to the gravity of the moment, Mr. Biden used much of his brief victory address — via a balky live stream from his home in Wilmington, Del. — to discuss the virus and to reassure the country. “We’ll get through this together,” Mr. Biden said, trying to project a presidential bearing to a rattled nation. He only fleetingly mentioned Tuesday’s results, noting he had “a very good night,” before directly speaking to Mr. Sanders’s youthful supporters, a voting group he is trying to court. “I hear you, I know what’s at stake, I know what we have to do,” Mr. Biden said. “Our goal as a campaign, and my goal as a candidate, is to unify this party and unify this nation.” Praising the “remarkable passion and tenacity” of Mr. Sanders and his supporters, the former vice president said he and the senator disagree on tactics but “share a common vision.” Mr. Sanders did not deliver a speech about the primary results, but earlier in the evening he broadcast his own online address calling for sweeping government action to remedy the economic damage of the crippling virus, including an initiative to give people $2,000 monthly payments for the duration of the crisis. “We must make certain that this health and economic crisis is not another moneymaking opportunity for corporate America and for Wall Street,” Mr. Sanders said, eschewing any mention of the primaries. Mr. Biden’s victories in all three states relied on the same coalition of voters who have powered his candidacy since his turning-point victory in South Carolina last month: African-Americans, political moderates and voters over 50, according to a pre-election poll. While Mr. Biden routed Mr. Sanders in Florida — even besting him with people who described themselves as very liberal — the results were somewhat more competitive in Illinois and Arizona, where Mr. Sanders dominated with voters under 45 and with the most liberal Democrats to cast ballots. Voters in all three states said by huge margins that they believed Mr. Biden was the candidate best prepared to handle a major crisis. The virus drove down turnout in some Florida localities, but even with the pandemic, turnout was still higher than in 2016 in a handful of suburban and affluent communities, such as Naples and suburban Jacksonville. Mr. Biden won both jurisdictions handily, as he had in other upscale precincts since Super Tuesday, a sign of his strength with the sort of voters who could swing the general election. Image A polling place in Doral, Fla., on Tuesday. Mr. Biden won the state handily.Credit...Scott McIntyre for The New York Times Mr. Biden had built a formidable lead over Mr. Sanders since the start of the month, leaping far ahead of him in national polls and collecting 151 more delegates out of the 1,805 allotted so far, according to a New York Times analysis. Influential leaders at every level of Democratic politics have swung behind Mr. Biden, reinforcing his position as the overwhelming choice of the party’s moderate establishment. Mr. Sanders has not indicated that he is likely to stand down as his losses mount, and his advisers indicated in the run-up to Tuesday’s primaries that he was likely to stay in the race and continue collecting as many delegates as he can. He used a debate on Sunday to deliver his most focused critique so far of Mr. Biden’s policy record and personal judgment, on a range of defining issues for Democratic voters. But both candidates are still adapting to the halting new pace of the campaign, which is now strictly confined by several factors: a patchwork of travel restrictions and local shutdowns; a near-blackout of news unrelated to the pandemic; and the two aging candidates’ concerns for their own health. For Mr. Sanders, 78, the country’s sudden turn away from the campaign may have the effect of smothering even the most determined effort to block Mr. Biden, 77, or broaden his own political appeal. The Vermont senator has long relied on huge rallies and a loud microphone in the national news media to advance his candidacy, and for the moment both tools appear to be unavailable. And Mr. Sanders may face growing complaints, even from liberal Democrats, that he is keeping the party divided at a moment when the stakes of the election have never been clearer or more urgent. Yet the campaign freeze may be an obstacle for Mr. Biden, too, particularly if Mr. Sanders persists with a long-shot challenge that could take months to resolve. Mr. Biden had been hoping to extinguish Mr. Sanders’s candidacy with a string of landslide victories, continuing his momentum into the contests this week and then into the Georgia primary next week. But like Ohio, Georgia recently announced it was moving its primary election. There is now the possibility of a major backlog of primaries in the late spring that could tempt Mr. Sanders to stay in the race and hope for a major shift in its political fundamentals. Even if Mr. Sanders is largely sidelined by the coronavirus crisis, his continued presence in the race could hinder Mr. Biden’s ability to establish himself as the presumptive Democratic nominee and to turn his attention exclusively toward President Trump. While he has been off the trail over the past week, Mr. Biden has begun to run something like a Rose Garden campaign, or whatever the equivalent is for someone who is not already the president: He appointed a public health task force and unveiled a detailed policy agenda for addressing the coronavirus in a formal speech on Thursday. Over the weekend Mr. Biden held a phone call with Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, his progressive former rival, and endorsed liberal policies on higher education and bankruptcy reform in an effort to woo the left. It is not clear how long Mr. Biden and Mr. Sanders might be kept from campaigning altogether. Both men are confronting the likelihood that they will not be able to hold traditional campaign events until well into the spring, at the earliest, and even the possibility that the summer nominating conventions could be endangered by the imperatives of fighting the coronavirus. The elections on Tuesday offered new evidence of just how difficult it had become to hold any semblance of normal primary elections. There were reports in multiple states of election workers not showing up at the polls; even in densely populated and heavily Democratic areas, like Miami-Dade County in Florida and Cook County in Illinois, voter turnout appeared low in the morning. Most of all, the frenzy of sudden, and sometimes contradictory, last-minute announcements in Ohio underscored the potential for outright chaos at the polls. Gov. Mike DeWine, a Republican, declared late on Monday that he would not allow Ohio’s primary to go forward. After an initial setback in court, Mr. DeWine’s state health director issued an order closing the polls as a health emergency, and early on Tuesday morning a state court allowed that decision to go forward. Election officials in the other three states voting conceded that the coronavirus was a cause for concern but said that they were taking steps to sanitize the polls. And in perhaps a bleak reflection of the country’s present condition, Katie Hobbs, Arizona’s secretary of state, warned that there was “no guarantee that there will be a safer time to hold this election in the near future.” “The longer we wait, the more difficult and dangerous it could become,” she said. Our 2020 Election Guide Updated April 26, 2020 The Latest Joseph R. Biden Jr. has been forced to adapt his campaign style as he attempts to win the presidency without leaving his house. Coronavirus Election Calendar As the coronavirus outbreak upends the 2020 campaign, several states have postponed their primary elections. We’re keeping track here. Keep Up With Our Coverage Get an email recapping the day’s news Download our mobile app on iOS and Android and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts Listen to our podcast, The Field, on Apple Podcasts and Spotify AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions