https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/17/us/politics/primary-voter-turnout-2020.html
Illinois Stumbles as States See Light Voter Turnout, With Many Ballots in the Mail - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics|Illinois Stumbles as States See Light Voter Turnout, With Many Ballots in the Mail https://nyti.ms/2vq2Gka Latest Results National Map Delegate Count Election Calendar Who’s Running AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Illinois Stumbles as States See Light Voter Turnout, With Many Ballots in the Mail Florida, Illinois and Arizona pressed ahead with their presidential primary elections on Tuesday, but chaos and confusion in Illinois sent in-person turnout diving amid coronavirus fears. In-person voting in Chicago was far below normal levels on Tuesday.Credit...Joshua Lott/Reuters By Nick Corasaniti, Stephanie Saul, Matt Stevens and Reid J. Epstein March 17, 2020 Voting in major cities in Illinois was rife with confusion on Tuesday and early turnout in many areas was significantly lower than expected, leading to complaints from poll workers and clashes between Chicago officials and the statehouse. Illinois is one of three states that went ahead with their Democratic presidential primaries on Tuesday amid fears about people gathering in groups and risking exposure to the coronavirus. In Florida, relocated polling sites led to disruption and low turnout was reported in some counties, while voting in others was running smoothly. Arizona, where a vast majority of voters had cast their ballots early, was reporting no major issues. Elections officials in all three states hoped that any drop-off in turnout would be partially offset by early voting and the vote-by-mail ballots that many Democrats filed in the weeks leading up to Tuesday. Stay up to date on primaries and caucuses. Subscribe to “On Politics,” and we’ll send you a link to the live results. Sign up for our politics newsletter Ohio also had a presidential primary scheduled, but Gov. Mike DeWine postponed it through a flurry of legal actions and declarations on Monday night, recommending that it be pushed to June 2. Voters who weren’t aware of the late-night decision by the governor and the state’s top health official were greeted Tuesday morning with closed doors and statements taped to windows saying the primary had been postponed. “This is a gathering of people, and what we’ve tried to do is explain to Ohioans we cannot have large gatherings,” Mr. DeWine said in an interview on ABC’s “The View” on Tuesday. “And so that is a problem.” Tuesday’s remaining elections, which will now award a total of 441 delegates, come as the Democratic field has winnowed to just two major candidates, former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Senator Bernie Sanders. With polls showing Mr. Biden ahead in all three states, the results in Arizona, Florida and Illinois could give Mr. Biden a sizable delegate lead and put more pressure on Mr. Sanders to step aside. On Tuesday morning, a spokesman for Mr. Sanders emphasized safety above all else, and said the campaign was not doing traditional get-out-the-vote outreach in Florida, Illinois and Arizona. “We are making clear to voters that we believe going to the polls amid the coronavirus outbreak is a personal decision and we respect whichever choice they make,” said Mike Casca, the communications director for Mr. Sanders. “We are also passing along guidance from the C.D.C. on staying safe during the crisis.” The Biden campaign released a memo on Tuesday afternoon affirming its commitment to Tuesday’s elections. “We held elections during the Civil War, the 1918 flu pandemic and World War II,” the memo from Kate Bedingfield, the deputy campaign manager, said. “We are confident that we can meet that same challenge today and continue to uphold the core functions and values of our democracy.” Early Tuesday morning, officials in Florida and Illinois indicated that they were seeing signs of light turnout in polling places, which were to be stocked with hand sanitizer, disinfectant wipes and protective masks for poll workers. In Chicago, multiple poll workers complained on social media that they did not have the proper cleaning supplies or hand sanitizer. In a teleconference Tuesday afternoon, Jim Allen, a spokesman for the Chicago Board of Election Commissioners, said that as of 1 p.m., about 126,500 people had voted on Election Day. By comparison, he estimated that about 300,000 people had voted by the same time during the 2016 presidential primary. “We certainly weren’t anticipating this crisis,” he said on the call. “This has been a very challenging time.” He added that about 200 polling places had been moved and shifted in recent days, noting that some precincts had not opened on time on Tuesday because personnel had not shown up. Illinois state officials also acknowledged that the turnout was exceedingly low. “Even in an extremely low-voter-turnout primary, you would expect to see triple that,” said Matt Dietrich, a spokesman for the state board of elections, referencing turnout in the Chicago area. Ami Gandhi, general counsel for the Chicago Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights, said her organization’s hotline had received an unprecedented number of phone calls from voters. “Our phones have been ringing off the hook in terms of voters having issues and problems and confusion in accessing the polls,” Ms. Gandhi said. At Broadway United Methodist Church in Chicago, 25 people were turned away when they arrived and found the polling location closed. “They didn’t know where to go,” Ms. Gandhi said, adding that a number of polling locations had been closed at the last minute as elections officials sought to find safer alternatives. Outside Chicago, turnout in Illinois was far lower than had been anticipated just days earlier. In Peoria, early voting numbers were up about 40 percent compared to 2016 figures, according to Tom Bride, the executive director of the Peoria County Election Commission. But Primary Day turnout has not kept up the pace. “It’s off-year election kind of slow,” Mr. Bride said. He projected about 17 percent of the county’s registered voters would turn out, down from 43 percent in 2016, when both parties had competitive presidential contests. DuPage County, a Chicago suburb that has had to relocate more than a dozen polling places, said that as of noon local time, about 49,000 votes had been cast, bringing the overall turnout to around 91,000 — about 14 percent of the county’s 614,000 registered voters. In Florida’s Palm Beach County, hundreds of volunteer poll workers told officials they could not show up on Tuesday, forcing the county to open some locations late and move other ones. “We have experienced poll worker no-shows causing some of our polling locations to open late,” Wendy Sartory Link, the county supervisor of elections, wrote on Facebook. She added that several polling locations would have to be moved, and encouraged voters to pick up a ballot from any of the county’s four elections offices. In Miami-Dade County, about 8 percent of the expected 4,800 poll workers did not show up on Tuesday morning, according to Suzy Trutie, spokeswoman for the county elections supervisor. “Given the light election turnout,” she said, “we are confident we are properly staffed to receive voters.” At a Miami fire station early on Tuesday, Leah Weston, 34, said she wanted to maintain the habit of casting a ballot on Election Day. “I just enjoy the ritual of it, of going to my polling place,” she said. She would have voted early over the weekend, but she chose to “anxiety clean” her home instead. She also figured — correctly — that the fire station would be less of a confined space than the indoor early voting sites. Maybe two other voters were present, she said. “Cynically, I think turnout is going to be pretty low today,” she said. “It’s going to be easy to practice social distancing today.” Even as officials in all three states conceded that turnout at physical polling places was likely to be lower on Tuesday, each state pointed to higher than normal early voting and voting by mail as indications that overall turnout could surpass 2016 levels. In Arizona, more than 380,000 Democrats voted early. In 2016, the total turnout for the Democratic primary there was just under 410,000. Maricopa County, which includes Phoenix and its sprawling suburbs, exceeded its turnout from the 2016 Democratic presidential primary on early and mail-in voting alone, before officials counted any ballots dropped off or cast on Tuesday, said Adrian Fontes, the Maricopa County recorder. About 3,500 ballots were cast in the county during the first hour voting was open, a pace that continued throughout the morning, Mr. Fontes said. Sophia Solis, a spokeswoman for the Arizona secretary of state, said there was a “steady stream” of voters at polling places throughout the state Tuesday, though she could not elaborate or give specific numbers. A large number of Floridians have also voted early or cast ballots by mail, according to state data. The Florida Department of State reported Monday evening that more than 630,000 Democrats had voted by mail and more than 430,000 Democrats had taken advantage of early voting. Both the vote-by-mail and early-voting tallies were up significantly from the 2016 Democratic primary, when total turnout was around 1.7 million. In Pinellas County in Florida, more than 104,000 registered Democrats had already cast ballots, including 16,000 who voted on Tuesday morning, putting the county within striking distance of the nearly 106,000 votes cast in the 2016 Democratic primary, with hours of voting still to come. The Illinois Democratic Party said that as of Sunday, nearly 300,000 Illinoisans had voted early or by mail. Mary Morrissey, the party’s executive director, said she expected the final number to exceed the 350,000 such votes cast in 2016. As Ohio shuttered its polls on Tuesday, other states began to follow suit. Gov. Larry Hogan of Maryland said Tuesday that he was postponing his state’s presidential primary to June 2, from April 28. “Like other states have done, all the primary elections will be postponed until June, which gives everyone time to prepare,” Mr. Hogan said. Maggie Astor, Nate Cohn, Jennifer Medina and Patricia Mazzei contributed reporting. Our 2020 Election Guide Updated April 28, 2020 The Latest Hillary Clinton, during a virtual town hall-style event about the impact of the coronavirus on women, announced her support for Joseph R. Biden Jr. Coronavirus Election Calendar As the pandemic upends the 2020 campaign, several states have postponed or canceled their primary elections. We’re keeping track here. Keep Up With Our Coverage Get an email recapping the day’s news Download our mobile app on iOS and Android and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts Listen to our podcast, The Field, on Apple Podcasts and Spotify AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions