https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/28/nyregion/coronavirus-new-york-update.html?action=click&pgtype=Article&state=default&module=styln-coronavirus-national&region=MID_MAIN_CONTENT&context=storyline_updates_national
Cuomo Calls Subway Cars Filled With Homeless People ‘Disgusting’ - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index New York Today’s Paper New York|Cuomo Calls Subway Cars Filled With Homeless People ‘Disgusting’ https://nyti.ms/35cUZLD The Coronavirus Outbreak debugid:204 • Latest Updates Maps and Tracker New Symptom List • Markets Life at Home Newsletter AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Cuomo Calls Subway Cars Filled With Homeless People ‘Disgusting’ The governor, referring to a newspaper image of homeless people on the subway, said it was “disgusting” and “disrespectful” to essential workers. Published April 28, 2020Updated April 29, 2020, 7:27 a.m. ET [This briefing has ended. For the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak in the New York area, read Wednesday’s live coverage.] Here’s what you need to know: Governor Cuomo called the sight of homeless people sleeping on subways ‘disgusting.’ Building sites reopen, carefully, in a sign of life gearing back up. Protesters gather in New Jersey as governor announces death count. The number of new virus admissions at N.Y. hospitals has fallen 70 percent. Cuomo says he wishes he ‘blew the bugle’ on the virus in January. Confirmed cases and deaths in New York State 0 5,000 10,000 cases Feb. 26 Apr. 28 7-day average New cases Total Cases 295,137 Deaths 17,638 See maps of the coronavirus outbreak in New York » Governor Cuomo called the sight of homeless people sleeping on subways ‘disgusting.’ Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo on Tuesday waded into a struggle between New York City and the state agency that runs the city’s transit system over the issue of homeless people sleeping on subway trains. At his daily briefing, Mr. Cuomo held up a front-page photo in The Daily News of homeless people camping on subway trains. “That is disgusting, what is happening on those subway cars,” he said, adding that what was shown in the image was “disrespectful to the essential workers” who rely on the subway. “It’s not even safe for the homeless people to be on trains,” he added. “No face masks, you have this whole outbreak, we’re concerned about homeless people, so we let them stay on the trains without protection in this epidemic of the Covid virus? No. We have to do better than that, and we will.” Video transcript Back bars 0:00/1:19 -1:19 transcript Cuomo Calls Crowds of Homeless on Subways ‘Disgusting’ Gov. Andrew Cuomo said homeless people sleeping on New York City’s subway trains during the coronavirus outbreak was putting essential workers at risk. The New York Daily News ran a story today on the public transportation in New York City. And the front page is a picture of a subway car filled with homeless people, and their belongings. Respect the essential workers. That is disgusting, what is happening on those subway cars. It’s disrespectful to the essential workers who need to ride the subway system. Upstate New York, need to ride the buses to get to work. They deserve better, and they will have better. We have to have a public transportation system that is clean, where the trains are disinfected. You have homeless people on trains. It’s not even safe for the homeless people to be on trains. No face masks. You have this whole outbreak. We’re concerned about homeless people. So we let them stay on the trains without protection? In this epidemic of the Covid virus, no, we have to do better than that. And we will. Gov. Andrew Cuomo said homeless people sleeping on New York City’s subway trains during the coronavirus outbreak was putting essential workers at risk.CreditCredit...Cindy Schultz for The New York Times He did not elaborate on what measures would be taken, but he said in a subsequent radio interview on WCBS that the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which runs the subways, needed to “take dramatic action and they have to take it now.” Mr. Cuomo called on the authority, which he effectively controls, to tell him what steps needed to be taken. Tensions between City Hall and the authority over what to do about homeless people sleeping on trains and in stations had been building long before the virus outbreak hit the city. As subway ridership has plummeted during the ensuing shutdown, there is some evidence that more homeless people are using largely empty trains for sleeping. Latest Updates: Coronavirus Outbreak in New York A Hasidic funeral in Brooklyn drew a huge crowd, and the mayor’s wrath. Governor Cuomo called the sight of homeless people sleeping on the subway ‘disgusting.’ Far from home, nurses from other states fight on New York’s front lines. See more updates Updated 13m ago More live coverage: Global Markets U.S. Advocates for homeless people said that many of them have avoided dormitory-style city shelters where the virus has spread rapidly and killed dozens of people. On Monday, Mayor Bill de Blasio said the city would increase outreach efforts for homeless people at subway stations and provide 200 more shelter beds. He also asked the authority to temporarily close 10 end-of-the-line stations from midnight to 5 a.m. so workers could offer services to riders leaving trains and do “enhanced sanitization” of subway cars. Sarah Feinberg, the interim president of New York City Transit, which operates the city’s subway and buses, said in a radio interview on Tuesday that she welcomed the mayor’s announcement but suggested it would not go far enough. She also said that the authority would need to hire more police officers to address Mr. Cuomo’s concerns. “What I’m asking of the city is to step up,” Ms. Feinberg said on WCBS. “If the city is unable or unwilling to step up, then I need to go hire more M.T.A. police officers and extend the contracts for outreach workers on my own behalf.” Building sites reopen, carefully, in a sign of life gearing back up. Image A worker getting his temperature taken at a construction site on the Far West Side of Manhattan. Credit...Gregg Vigliotti for The New York Times On the Far West Side of Manhattan, construction workers start every morning having their temperatures taken with a thermal forehead scanner. On service elevators at the high-rise development, they stand on floor markings to maintain social distance. When deliveries arrive, drivers stay behind the wheel while the haul is unloaded. City building inspectors often show up unannounced, issuing warnings and fines if safety procedures are being ignored. The construction industry, which helped power New York City’s tremendous growth in recent years, is starting to reawaken, offering glimmers of an economic rebound and a glimpse of how the coronavirus pandemic is changing workplaces in the outbreak’s U.S. epicenter. “I would have to say that the industry has evolved very rapidly to adapt to our current environment regarding the coronavirus,” said Gary LaBarbera, the president of the Building and Construction Trades Council of Greater New York, which represents more than 100,000 union members. Protesters gather in New Jersey as governor announces death count. Governor Philip D. Murphy said on Tuesday that the state had recorded another 402 coronavirus-related deaths, as dozens gathered in Trenton to protest the social-distancing measures the state enacted to contain the spread of the virus. The number was the highest the state has reported on one day, but Mr. Murphy said it included some deaths from the weekend that had not been reported Sunday or Monday. New Jersey’s death toll from the virus is now 6,442. The protesters gathered just before Mr. Murphy’s briefing at the Statehouse, waving American flags and hoisting signs expressing support for President Trump. Many of the demonstrators were not wearing face coverings and were standing in tight groups. “I don’t begrudge anyone’s right to protest,” Mr. Murphy said when asked about the rally, adding, “I really wish they would do it at home.” “I hope they’re not making each other sick,” he said. Mr. Murphy has been unapologetic about the strict measure the state imposed, saying that New Jersey would not reopen until officials had seen a consistent decline in the number of cases and deaths. Polling in the state has shown consistent support for his actions. The governor also announced the creation of a commission that he said would guide the state’s reopening efforts. The group will be led by Kenneth Frazier, the chief executive of the drugmaker Merck, and Shirley Tilghman, a professor and former president of Princeton University. Other members include Ben S. Bernanke, the former Federal Reserve chair who led the central bank though the 2008 financial crisis and its aftermath. The number of new virus admissions at N.Y. hospitals has fallen 70 percent. The number of coronavirus patients newly admitted to hospitals in New York State has fallen more than 70 percent since the outbreak’s peak earlier this month, according to statistics that Mr. Cuomo cited on Tuesday. The number reported Tuesday was below 1,000 for the first time in over a month, down from more than 3,000 reported on April 4 — further evidence that the outbreak was waning. Deaths from the virus remained flat — 335 more people died, Mr. Cuomo said, an almost identical figure to the 337 deaths reported on Monday. Cuomo says he wishes he ‘blew the bugle’ on the virus in January. Mr. Cuomo said in an interview broadcast on Monday that he wished he had sounded the alarm about the virus in January, before the outbreak exploded in New York. Mr. Cuomo, interviewed on “Axios on HBO,” suggested that when China said its outbreak was under control, the rest of the world should have raced to make sure that was true. “I wish someone stood up and blew the bugle,” he said. “And if no one was going to blow the bugle, I would feel much better if I was a bugle blower last December and January.” He added: “I would feel better sitting here today saying, ‘I blew the bugle about Wuhan province in January.’ I can’t say that.” The comments appeared to be the first time Mr. Cuomo publicly questioned his own handling of the outbreak. He has acknowledged that the virus got out ahead of efforts to contain it. “This virus has been ahead of us since Day 1,” he said on March 30. But he told New Yorkers in early March that there was little to worry about. “We don’t even think it’s going to be as bad as it was in other countries,” he said on March 2, the day after New York recorded its first case. The governor also waited longer to close schools and businesses than leaders in other states with less serious outbreaks, but he has repeatedly insisted that he took the best course of action possible. “Every action I took was criticized at the time as premature,” Mr. Cuomo told The New York Times in an interview published April 8. “The facts have proven my decisions correct.” And he has said repeatedly that every life that could have been saved, was. “The way I sleep at night is I believe that we didn’t lose anyone that we could have saved,” he said April 9. Mr. Cuomo’s memory of early alarms about the virus appeared to be somewhat selective. The World Health Organization declared an international public health emergency in January, and the federal Centers for Disease Control said in February that the virus would spread in the United States. New York City announces new grading system for public schools. Six weeks into a profoundly disrupted semester, Mr. de Blasio on Tuesday announced a new grading system effective through end of the school year for the city’s 1.1 million students. Students across the system will not receive failing grades, the mayor said as he laid out the policies: Elementary school: Students in kindergarten through fifth grade will be graded either “meets standards” or “needs improvement.” Because summer school plans are still being worked out, it was not yet clear whether children would be held back if they fall behind academically. Middle school: Students will be assessed using the same marks but can also receive a grade of “course in progress,” if teachers need more information to determine whether a student has mastered a class. Those students will get priority for remedial help over the summer and fall. High school: Students will still get letter grades, but they will have until early next school year to complete courses that they do not finish to their teachers’ satisfaction. They will also be given the option of switching grades for this semester to a pass/fail mark. Mr. de Blasio said the city was trying to strike a balance. Educators want to maintain high standards and motivate pupils to log on to online school each morning. But the city also wants to keep high school students on track for graduation and avoid penalizing students, particularly those who have lacked the internet access they need for remote learning. Fighter jets flew over the region as crowds flocked outside. The roar of fighter jets echoed through New York City on Tuesday afternoon, as pilots from the Navy’s Blue Angels and the Air Force’s Thunderbirds will honor essential workers. The formation of a dozen aircraft flew over New York City and Newark at noon, then traveled south to Trenton and Philadelphia. The flyover announcement was greeted less than enthusiastically by some on Twitter, where one user suggested that government resources might be better spent on direct aid and personal protective gear: Others expressed fears that the flyover, especially on a sunny spring day, might draw crowds despite the requests of officials that observers follow social distancing guidelines. On Twitter and Instagram, users posted photos of people gathered to watch the flyover. Many of those pictured appeared to be standing close together and were not wearing masks. Are you a health care worker in the New York area? Tell us what you’re seeing. As The New York Times follows the spread of the coronavirus across New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, we need your help. We want to talk to doctors, nurses, lab technicians, respiratory therapists, emergency services workers, nursing home managers — anyone who can share what’s happening in the region’s hospitals and other health care centers. A reporter or editor may contact you. Your information will not be published without your consent. Reporting was contributed by Jonah Engel Bromwich, Maria Cramer, Michael Gold, Matthew Haag, Andy Newman, Eliza Shapiro, Matt Stevens and Nikita Stewart. The Coronavirus Outbreak Frequently Asked Questions and Advice Updated April 11, 2020 When will this end? This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days. How can I help? The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.) What should I do if I feel sick? If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. Should I wear a mask? The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. How do I get tested? If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. How does coronavirus spread? It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face. Is there a vaccine yet? No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away. What makes this outbreak so different? Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard. What if somebody in my family gets sick? If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently. Should I stock up on groceries? Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home. Can I go to the park? Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea. Should I pull my money from the markets? That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years. What should I do with my 401(k)? Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions