https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/06/us/politics/wisconsin-primary-voting-coronavirus.html
Wisconsin Election Fight Heralds a National Battle Over Virus-Era Voting - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics|Wisconsin Election Fight Heralds a National Battle Over Virus-Era Voting https://nyti.ms/2Vag3Ob Latest Results National Map Delegate Count Election Calendar Who’s Running AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Wisconsin Election Fight Heralds a National Battle Over Virus-Era Voting The sole polling location for the city of Waukesha, Wis., on Monday, the day before the state’s scheduled election. Many states across the country have postponed their elections because of the coronavirus.Credit...Scott Trindl/Scott Trindl, via Associated Press By Astead W. Herndon and Jim Rutenberg April 6, 2020 MILWAUKEE — Wisconsin voters will face a choice between protecting their health and exercising their civic duty on Tuesday after state Republican leaders, backed up by a conservative majority on the state’s Supreme Court, rebuffed the Democratic governor’s attempt to postpone in-person voting in their presidential primary and local elections. The political and legal skirmishing throughout Monday was only the first round of an expected national fight over voting rights in the year of Covid-19. The Republicans’ success came at the end of a day that left anxious voters whipsawed between competing claims from the governor, Tony Evers, and his opponents in the G.O.P.-controlled State Legislature over whether Tuesday’s election would proceed as planned. It rattled democracy in a key battleground state already shaken by a fast-growing number of cases of the coronavirus. The governor had issued an executive order postponing in-person voting and extending to June the deadline for absentee ballots. But Republican leaders succeeded in getting the state’s top court to stay the decree. And in a decision late Monday capping the election-eve chaos, the U.S. Supreme Court’s conservative-leaning majority dealt its own blow to Wisconsin Democrats. In a 5-4 vote, the majority ruled against their attempt to extend the deadline for absentee voting in Tuesday’s elections, saying such a change “fundamentally alters the nature of the election.” The court’s four liberal members dissented, with Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg writing that “the court’s order, I fear, will result in massive disenfranchisement.” [Follow live updates from Tuesday’s voting in Wisconsin.] On the surface, it was exceedingly high drama for what amounts to a seemingly foreordained Democratic primary vote between the likely nominee, former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., and Senator Bernie Sanders, who trailed substantially in a recent Wisconsin poll; a host of local contests; and a general election for a seat on the State Supreme Court now held by a conservative. But what happens in Wisconsin has far broader implications for both parties. The state stands as a first test case in what both national parties expect to be a protracted fight over changing voter rules to contend with the pandemic — potentially the biggest voting rights battle since the passage of the Voting Rights Act of 1965. Mr. Evers was trying to push Wisconsin still further toward voting by mail. Since the pandemic first forced stay-at-home orders across the country, many Democrats have advocated a universal vote-by-mail system in November. Republicans in several states and the president himself are pushing for as much in-person voting as possible. Indeed, for the better part of the last two decades, Republicans have sought to tighten voting restrictions — pushing stringent new voter identification requirements and sweeping voter roll purges that disproportionately affected people of color, the poor and the young. They have done so, they say, to curb in-person voter fraud, which, despite their claims to the contrary, is exceedingly rare. “Wisconsin is just a microcosm. And it presents questions that the nation will soon have to grapple with,” said former Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr., who now leads an organization focused on gerrymandering and voting equality. “It’s a test of our democracy. And the question is, ‘Are we up to passing that test?’” Listen to ‘The Daily’: Wisconsin’s Pandemic PrimaryVoters are facing a choice even before they see the ballot: whether to protect their health or exercise their civic duty. transcript Back to The Daily bars 0:00/30:28 -30:28 transcript Listen to ‘The Daily’: Wisconsin’s Pandemic Primary Hosted by Michael Barbaro; produced by Clare Toeniskoetter and Rachel Quester; with help from Stella Tan; and edited by M.J. Davis Lin Voters are facing a choice even before they see the ballot: whether to protect their health or exercise their civic duty. michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” [music] Against the advice of public health officials and the wishes of its own governor, Wisconsin will hold its democratic primary today in the middle of a pandemic. Astead Herndon on how that happened. It’s Tuesday, April 7. astead herndon March was always going to be one of the most consequential months of the presidential election. By the time we get to the middle of March, though — archived recording So here’s what we’re watching. Breaking news. Louisiana officially could become the first state to postpone its Democratic primary election over the coronavirus pandemic. astead herndon — it becomes clear that the coronavirus global health pandemic has really upended the race completely. [music] astead herndon After Super Tuesday, states that are scheduled to vote start postponing and sometimes outright canceling their scheduled primaries. archived recording 1 Georgia becoming the second state to delay its presidential primary. archived recording 2 Kentucky announced that they’d delay their contest as well. archived recording 3 Ohio’s governor pushed back its primary just hours before polls were set to open. archived recording 4 Other states — Connecticut, Indiana and Maryland. astead herndon These are all states that said that the public health crisis was too great for them to hold in-person elections in March. But there’s one state that refuses to budge, even as public health officials are urging them and states across the country have taken that drastic step. It’s Wisconsin. michael barbaro And what explains that? What’s happening in Wisconsin? astead herndon Well, when most people look at these presidential primaries, particularly in a state like Wisconsin, they think that this is just about the two candidates at the top — Joe Biden versus Bernie Sanders, and who gets the delegates out of that. But the reason why Wisconsin was holding out and keeping its primary schedule was really to do with more state and local concerns. Initially, the Democratic governor, Tony Evers, and state Republican leaders were on the same page. They both agreed that the April 7 election should go forward. And they said so for a couple reasons. Not only had the virus not really ravaged the state in the same way that we have seen in other parts of the country at the initial time in March when they were making this decision, but they agreed on the importance of the state and local races that would be decided down ballot on the same day of the presidential primary. archived recording (tony evers) I just want to make sure people understand the complexity of our spring general election. It’s not a primary election. It’s only a primary election for the presidential candidates. astead herndon Races like sheriffs and mayors and court judges. There’s a particularly important Supreme Court race that’s happening in the state. And both sides agreed that filling these roles was important for the continuance of state government. archived recording (tony evers) How long do we potentially leave offices not filled because we’re into July and August and we haven’t held a general election? astead herndon And that’s why they proceeded with the primary. archived recording (robin vos) You know, I want to give credit to Governor Evers. I agree with his decision to say that we are going to hold this election. michael barbaro Hm. So despite the risks of holding an in-person primary in the middle of a pandemic, despite the fact that many states are postponing these primaries, the Republican and Democratic officials in Wisconsin say that this is necessary for the functioning of their government? astead herndon Right. And that’s the position they held for about a week. michael barbaro And what happens after a week? astead herndon Well, kind of most clearly, the factors around the decision changed. archived recording (tony evers) We need an all-hands-on-deck approach to stop the spread of Covid-19 in Wisconsin. astead herndon The pandemic becomes more acutely felt in the Midwest and particularly in Wisconsin. archived recording (tony evers) And here is the bottom line — folks need to start taking this seriously. So today I’m asking for your help. astead herndon And the governor issues a stay-at-home order like many other governors did across the country and closes all non-essential businesses. archived recording (tony evers) It’s not something I wanted to do, and it’s not something I take lightly. astead herndon And people across the state are starting to say, well, if we can’t leave our houses, how are we supposed to vote? michael barbaro Right. And what’s the answer? astead herndon The governor and state Republicans keep holding this line that voting was something that was so essential, that the primary was something that was so important, that they would try to find some workarounds that included expanding access to absentee ballots and encouraging people to use that measure. It included counties taking precautionary measures which include maybe drive-through voting or socially distanced lines. But besides all of these creative measures, there is an increasing fear, particularly among poll workers, that the election would be unsafe for them to staff. These are people who, 90 percent of them are senior citizens. michael barbaro Poll workers? astead herndon Mm-hmm. One of the most vulnerable population to this deadly virus. And they start dropping off, informing their local jurisdictions that they don’t think that they want to participate in the scheduled election. A survey from the Election Commission in the state showed that more than a hundred jurisdictions cannot adequately staff their polling locations, because they wouldn’t have the right poll workers to do so. michael barbaro Wow. astead herndon That becomes the first real point of pressure to say, how can this election go forward? michael barbaro So what do officials do in response to this severe shortage of poll workers? astead herndon Well, they go back to trying to find creative workarounds. So the first thing that some of the local jurisdictions do is close and limit their polling locations. Some of the more drastic examples include Milwaukee, the biggest city in the state, going from 180 polling locations, typically, down to just five or seven. michael barbaro And yet everyone still seems committed to holding this election? astead herndon They were, until the virus intensifies in the state and cases increase. As the deaths increase, that’s when you see a real shift from the governor. archived recording (tony evers) Hi there, folks. Governor Evers here. astead herndon And it’s a big one. archived recording (tony evers) So today, I’m asking the legislature to come together to take bipartisan action to ensure that every registered voter receives an absentee ballot to vote in the upcoming election. astead herndon He proposes a dramatic expansion in the state’s absentee ballot voting system, essentially making it a universal vote-by-mail system. archived recording (tony evers) So I hope that the legislature will act swiftly to send absentee ballots to every single registered voter living in Wisconsin. astead herndon The state would mail 3.3 million eligible voters a ballot, whether they requested it or not. And that represents a real change in how kind of the electoral process would work throughout the state. archived recording (tony evers) This is not a Republican issue or a Democratic issue. This is an issue of democracy. I don’t care who gets the credit. I just want to make sure that everyone has a chance to cast their ballot this April. Thanks for watching, and let’s get it done, folks. astead herndon And that’s when we really see the partisan pushback start. [music] What began as a Democratic governor and a Republican state legislature that were basically on the same page has now devolved into what is, by all accounts, a partisan bloodbath. From the moment that Evers proposes that every person would be mailed a ballot whether they ask for it or not, Republicans go haywire. archived recording Right now, Senate Majority Leader Scott Fitzgerald is calling this idea a fantasy. archived recording (scott fitzgerald) Yeah, this has probably been my biggest disappointment so far in working with the administration since this all happened. astead herndon They say that this is not only logistically impractical — archived recording (scott fitzgerald) It was completely disingenuous for the governor to tape a video and post it as if this was reality. To float the idea that they were going to find enough outer envelopes, ballots themselves, inner envelopes with first class postage, and mail it out to 3.3 million people in Wisconsin is completely made up. astead herndon — but also kind of morally and democratically wrong. archived recording (scott fitzgerald) You know, that happens sometimes, I guess, if you’re feeling pressure from one of your own special interests or from the party themselves. But — astead herndon And Evers knows that state law does not allow him to kind of unilaterally make huge changes in how Wisconsin runs the election. archived recording (tony evers) Folks, I can’t move this election or change the rules on my own. My hands are tied. astead herndon He needs the help of the legislature. And so one of the measures he tries to do is call a special session of the legislature, and encourage them to delay the election and implement changes that would allow every person to be able to vote without going in person. archived recording (tony evers) I urge the legislators to take this call for a special session seriously. astead herndon It doesn’t go well. The legislature gavels in a session this past Saturday. archived recording (legislature) April 2020, special session of the Senate will come to order. With no objection, the April 2020 special session will stand adjourned until Monday, April 6. astead herndon And less than a minute later — archived recording (legislature) April 2020, special session is adjourned. astead herndon — gavels out. michael barbaro Whoa. astead herndon This is kind of an extraordinary move by the legislature to really thumb their nose at the power of the executive and the governor. The biggest elected official in the state has called them into session and said, take up this issue. And they basically start the session and end it without doing what he asked. michael barbaro So the Republicans do not grant the governor his wish for a mail-in balloting system? astead herndon Right. [music] michael barbaro Astead, why is it that Wisconsin has so quickly erupted into a really nasty partisan battle over something as seemingly basic as making sure people can vote safely in a primary election? I mean, that would seem to be in everyone’s bipartisan interest to protect life, right? I mean, Democrats and Republicans will be casting ballots. astead herndon It would seem as if safe voting and public health would be an issue in which partisanship would be left to the side and that Democrats and Republicans can agree on the best way to move forward. But in Wisconsin, there is no issue in which that can be left aside. What we see is a state that has become so deeply wrested by Republican control that even something like safe voting turns into a mud fest. And for this governor, for the Democratic governor Tony Evers, that’s been clear since the day he was elected. michael barbaro We’ll be right back. [music] michael barbaro Astead, where does this political dysfunction that you’re describing in Wisconsin, where does that start? astead herndon Well, the state is one that is unique in its political history. [music] archived recording Few places reflect the growing political chasm in the U.S. as does the state of Wisconsin. astead herndon Wisconsin was a united Republican government under Scott Walker — archived recording Republicans won everything in Wisconsin in 2010. astead herndon — from 2010 until 2018. archived recording They won the legislature. They won this Republican majority in Wisconsin. astead herndon And this wasn’t just a Republican government that passed kind of conventional conservative bills. This was seen as really a laboratory of conservative ideas. archived recording Governor Scott Walker is the man at the center of a bitter fight that has cleaved Wisconsin like a block of its best cheddar cheese. astead herndon And so we saw a government that targeted teachers unions, that seized power on key boards, and really kind of had a wish list of conservative ideas nationally playing out in the state. archived recording He proposed slashing spending, raising no taxes, and most controversial of all, sharply curtailing public employee’s right to collective bargaining. [music] astead herndon Even as the state voted for Barack Obama twice — archived recording Incumbent Republican Governor Scott Walker has won his re-election bid. astead herndon — they kept winning. archived recording For the third time in four years, Republican Scott Walker has won a statewide election for governor. astead herndon So by the time you get to 2018 — archived recording Major shift happened overnight. Wisconsin voters, you’ve elected a Democrat as governor. astead herndon — when Walker loses his re-election bid to Tony Evers — archived recording The race was almost too close to call. But overnight, Democrat Tony Evers narrowly beat out G.O.P. incumbent Scott Walker, denying him a third term. astead herndon — Republicans in the state legislature have already learned a lesson from the years prior, that it’s more important to wield power than it is to be seen as a political compromiser. michael barbaro So how does that play out when all of a sudden there is a Democratic governor in Evers, who I assume wants to start making compromises with the Republican legislature? astead herndon The Republicans make clear that that is not what they’re interested in. archived recording 1 Republicans, stung by their losses in the midterms, are moving forward with last ditch efforts to hang onto power. It’s happening in at least two swing states, Wisconsin and Michigan. archived recording 2 The country is really watching this morning as lawmakers here in Wisconsin work through the night to amend and vote on a number of bills. astead herndon So in a special session that happens before Evers takes office, Republicans do a kind of classic power grab. archived recording Wisconsin’s Republican-controlled legislature passed a series of bills late Wednesday night that would limit the powers of incoming Democratic governor Tony Evers. astead herndon They pass a number of bills that limit the power of the incoming Democratic governor and take away things that were available to his Republican predecessor. archived recording Now the bills would put lawmakers in charge of litigation, which would effectively block incoming Democratic Governor Tony Evers and the Democratic Attorney General-elect from withdrawing the state from a lawsuit to overturn Obamacare. astead herndon So Evers would not have the power to make key appointments. archived recording And another bill would require the governor to get permission from the legislature to ban guns. astead herndon Evers would not have the power to regulate guns in the same way that existed for his predecessor. They also limit early voting, which is a kind of tool of access to the ballot box that has sometimes helped Democrats, because more people in bigger areas can get to the polls. These were all really nakedly partisan, and Republicans didn’t really even try to hide it. archived recording (robin vos) We don’t want to usurp his power. That’s never been our goal. Our goal is just to guarantee that we have an opportunity to sit at the table, negotiate and do it fairly. archived recording It puts us on an equal playing field as the legislature, and I think that’s a positive step for the state of Wisconsin. michael barbaro So that is the political backdrop, you’re saying, for this current battle over how to hold a primary in the middle of a pandemic? astead herndon Yeah. It is that sense of affirmation, the sense of rightness that Republicans enter into Evers’s administration with, and it allows them to openly flout the typical means of political pressure that the governor tries to put on them around the election. [music] archived recording The legislature — they came in, the gaveled in for about 10 seconds, gaveled out and they moved on. They said that was not a serious proposal and said the time for proposals like that was several weeks ago when the crisis began. michael barbaro So what happens after that special session, that minute-long special session about the election? astead herndon Well, there’s been a significant amount of legal legislation that has surrounded all of this political action. archived recording 1 So much going on here at the State Capitol today. archived recording 2 Let’s break down and give you a brief summary of what happened today, because it’s been a wild day politically. astead herndon There was a court ruling that basically affirmed that the Republicans probably have control over when the election should be held, but the ruling expanded access to absentee voting. Republicans appealed that straight to the U.S. Supreme Court. And then on Monday — archived recording 1 It started with Governor Evers issuing an executive order, pushing back the spring election from tomorrow to June 9. archived recording 2 This morning, Governor Tony Evers issued an executive order to postpone tomorrow’s election due to Covid-19 concerns. archived recording (tony evers) The bottom line is that I have an obligation to keep people safe. astead herndon — the governor makes his most drastic step, unilaterally postponing Tuesday’s election until June, claiming that he has the emergency powers to do so. This is a affront to the Republicans. archived recording Republican legislators mounted a legal challenge immediately. astead herndon And they immediately initiate emergency legislation, going straight to the Wisconsin Supreme Court, saying that the governor does not have the right to do this. archived recording And just about an hour ago, the State Supreme Court issued its ruling, saying that indeed, the election will happen tomorrow. astead herndon And the court agreed with him, ruling just hours later that the governor did not have the power to postpone the Tuesday primary, meaning the election will go on in person today. michael barbaro You know, Astead, I’m struck by the fact that earlier on, you told us that Democrats and Republicans in the state, they had basically been on the same page about this primary until the virus gets worse and the governor advocates for a different kind of voting system through absentee ballots. And then it all breaks down, and Republicans are attempting at every turn to block him now in court. And how do you explain that? I mean, how do Republicans in the state legislature explain that? astead herndon Republican county chairs and folks in the state legislature say a couple things. The first is that their position hasn’t changed. They thought the governor didn’t have the power then, and they don’t think he has the power now to change how the election is run. The other point is that they see Wisconsin, again, as a microcosm of the conservative fight that could happen largely, and what could be a new reality of how American elections are run in this pandemic era. And in that view, dramatically expanding the electorate in these ways are not something that Republicans are all that keen on. Because what they’re worried about is an election in which people who may not have participated, or may not have come out, all of a sudden have the opportunity to do so and to cast a ballot. And that kind of changes the center of power within the state. michael barbaro What do you mean? astead herndon If people participate in different numbers, in bigger numbers, if it changes the type of people who want to participate in the spring election that’s not necessarily always seen the biggest turnout, that changes who can win. michael barbaro And who has benefited from those systems in the past, and who might benefit if they were to change along the lines of what Governor Evers is asking for? astead herndon It’s hard to say exactly, because we’re talking about an unprecedented situation. But we do know that the people who are typically benefited from early voting, from early registration, from online registration, or a vote-by-mail are people who usually don’t participate in the process — younger voters, minority voters, people that lean Democratic. And just in the ways that Republicans limited early voting in that special session they had after Evers won, it’s the same thought process. That when more people get involved, when people who typically sit out get involved, that helps Democrats. michael barbaro Mm. Do Democrats acknowledge that an absentee balloting system that is suddenly much more widespread than it has been in the past would be advantageous to them in Wisconsin? astead herndon They principally try to appeal to voters using small “d” democratic ideals — the general, basic American principle that everyone should be given the easiest access to vote. They try to appeal to people through public health measures, noting how unsafe it is for people to gather at polls. But when you ask folks in Democratic circles, they know that when the electorate expands, particularly in national and statewide elections, that’s usually good news for Democrats. michael barbaro It’s interesting. This is not just a debate about how to vote in a pandemic, although clearly that’s what’s driving a lot of this. But in the background, from what you’re saying, is this other question, which is whether the systems needed to vote during a pandemic may fundamentally change who votes, how many people vote and which party wins. astead herndon Exactly. This is not just about public health. This is about access to power and the kind of most basic fundamental principles of democracy. If the system that we have been traditionally used to can’t hold, what replaces it? And we’ve seen real resistance to that in this state, and we may see that resistance all across the country. michael barbaro Well, why would you say that? Because it’s very tempting to see this story as an anomaly, right, in that the governor of Wisconsin waited a very long time to try to postpone the state’s primary — perhaps too long — and the state legislature is this hyper-partisan, conservative, activist body that is trying to use its power for political advantage. So all those factors would seem to make Wisconsin a bit of an outlier. astead herndon Well, what may seem like an anomaly right now might actually just be a pacesetter. And this could be a preview as to what comes for state after state. If you are a place like Georgia or Louisiana or Ohio that has functionally delayed its election by three, four weeks, and if this virus persists to that time, there will still be questions about whether it is safe to hold in-person balloting then. michael barbaro Right. astead herndon And when those questions come and the remedies are proposed, whether it’s online or vote-by-mail or the like, these same struggles of power will persist. And we will see factions emerge that question whether the new systems are fair and who politically benefits from them. [music] michael barbaro Astead, thank you very much. astead herndon Thank you. michael barbaro On Monday night, the U.S. Supreme Court sided with Republican lawmakers in Wisconsin, who had opposed extending the deadline for absentee ballots in today’s election. In a 5-to-4 ruling, the court’s conservative justices wrote that such an extension, quote, “fundamentally alters the nature of the election,” and said that all absentee ballots must be postmarked by 8:00 p.m. Tuesday night. Polls in Wisconsin are scheduled to open at 7:00 a.m. this morning, but it’s unclear how many poll workers will show up, how many polling stations will be open, and what kinds of protections will be in place to limit the spread of the coronavirus during in-person voting. Meanwhile, the virus continues to spread across Wisconsin. As of Monday, the state reported nearly 2,500 infections and 77 deaths. We’ll be right back. [music] michael barbaro Here’s what else you need to know today. archived recording (donald trump) I also want to send best wishes to a very good friend of mine and a friend to our nation, Prime Minister Boris Johnson. We’re very saddened to hear that he was taken into intensive care this afternoon, a little while ago. michael barbaro On Monday, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who tested positive for Covid-19 10 days ago, was moved into the intensive care unit of a London hospital after his condition worsened. archived recording (donald trump) Americans are all praying for his recovery. He’s been a really good friend. He’s been really something very special — strong, resolute, doesn’t quit, doesn’t give up. michael barbaro In a statement, Johnson insisted he remained in charge of the British government, but said he had deputized his foreign minister to act in his place when necessary. Meanwhile, Iran, an epicenter of the virus in the Middle East, said it would lift a nationwide shutdown of businesses and allow the majority of its workforce to return to work later this week. archived recording (hassan rouhani) [SPEAKING FARSI] michael barbaro Iran’s president, Hassan Rouhani, said it was important for economic activity to resume — archived recording (hassan rouhani) [SPEAKING FARSI] michael barbaro — despite fears that it could lead to greater levels of infection. archived recording (hassan rouhani) [SPEAKING FARSI] michael barbaro And in the U.S., the death toll surpassed 10,000 people and congressional leaders began talks about a second economic relief package that House Speaker Nancy Pelosi predicted could cost more than $1 trillion. [music] That’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you tomorrow. What’s more, the State Supreme Court contest is no small matter: The winner could play a pivotal role in deciding a partisan fight over a Republican-supported move to purge voters from the state rolls, which could greatly affect the November election results in a tightly contested battleground state that was central to President Trump’s 2016 victory. The race is so important to Republicans that Mr. Trump weighed in with a personal endorsement for the incumbent, Daniel Kelly. Until now, Mr. Evers had stopped short of acting on his own to move the election, instead urging the Republican-controlled State Legislature to do so as Democrats forced a court decision that extended the deadline for mailed absentee ballots to April 13. Republicans denied his request to move the election and sued to block the mail-in vote extension, ending in victory at the Supreme Court on Monday evening. The stakes were apparent in the lawyers involved in the Supreme Court fight. The Democratic team included the party’s top election lawyer, Marc Elias; among the law firms representing the Republicans was Consovoy McCarthy. The firm is currently helping Mr. Trump to fight congressional demands for his tax returns, and a named partner helped argue a 2013 Supreme Court case that gutted the powerful protections of the Voting Rights Act. As countless Republican investigations over the years have failed to produce proof of widespread, in-person voter fraud, Democrats have asserted that the Republicans’ main goal was to reduce voting by those from expanding portions of the electorate — people of color and the young — who tend to vote for Democrats over Republicans. Mr. Trump, whose false claims about voter fraud have gone far beyond anything ever alleged by his Republican predecessors, appeared to openly say as much last week when he complained about Democratic vote-by-mail proposals in Congress. “They had levels of voting that, if you ever agreed to it, you’d never have a Republican elected in this country again,” he said on “Fox and Friends.” His Republican allies echoed the sentiment, including in tweets like one from Representative Thomas Massie of Kentucky: “Universal vote by mail would be the end of our republic as we know it.” Justin Clark, a senior counsel to Mr. Trump’s campaign, accused Democrats of seeking to “redesign the entire U.S. election system” with proposals for “one-size-fits-all federal legislation,” which he called “irresponsible.” Mr. Clark said the campaign believed mail balloting could “play a role during a pandemic by enabling at-risk voters to vote safely,” but said the particulars should be left to the states, most of which already allow some mail balloting. At issue are proposals from two Democratic senators, Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and Ron Wyden of Oregon, to pay for a secure expansion of mail voting and provide easier access to mail-in ballots while lengthening early voting periods. The $2 trillion coronavirus relief package included $400 million in financing for voting — below the $2 billion, at least, that Democrats say is required — and did not include the other provisions. Mr. Trump, who registered to vote by mail in the Florida primary, appeared to be referring to the proposed expansion of early voting when he complained that Democrats “had things in there about election days,” which he called “totally crazy.” In an interview, Ms. Klobuchar said Democrats would keep pressing for more money and reforms in future bills, putting special emphasis on longer early voting periods, which would lessen crowds at polling sites. “Trump coming out against that is a travesty,” she said. “They are literally telling senior veterans they have to choose between their health and voting.” Even before the virus struck, Republicans and Democrats were girding for a record number of voting rights lawsuits throughout the states over voter identification provisions, the location of polling sites, and moves to purge voter rolls. But the pressure to move to more voting by mail has intensified the maneuvering, and shifted its focus to absentee balloting. “Covid obviously adds an additional concern that voting rights will be harder to exercise,” said Mr. Elias, the Democratic lawyer. “Therefore the need for courts to step in will be even greater.” Mr. Clark, the Trump campaign counsel, said Republicans would fight moves by Democrats to push provisions that would allow door-to-door canvassers to collect unlimited numbers of absentee ballots, which he called “ballot harvesting.” Signaling that it would be a major point of contention with Republicans, the Republican National Committee chairwoman, Ronna McDaniel, wrote in a Fox News opinion article, “The Democrats’ all-mail ballots proposal is a ruse to legalize ballot harvesting nationwide.” Richard L. Hasen, a professor of law and political science at the University of California, Irvine, School of Law, who follows the battle over voting closely, said that mail was more vulnerable to tampering than in-person voting. “We know that voter fraud, while very rare, more commonly occurs with absentee ballots than in-person balloting,” he said. But, he warned, Republicans should not use that as a reason to find more ways to curtail it. “While there are legitimate reasons to worry about increased vote by mail,” he said, “it’s not legitimate to fear increased vote by mail because it means that more voters would be able to vote.” Despite the position of the national party and legislators, several Republican governors and secretaries of states have, in fact, embraced increased mail voting, among them Gov. Mike DeWine of Ohio, who signed off on a mail-only primary, and the Iowa secretary of state, Paul Pate, who mailed absentee ballots to all of the state’s registered voters. But both parties were preparing for all-out war in battleground states like Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, which Mr. Trump’s campaign views as critical to his re-election prospects. “I hope not, but I fear Wisconsin is a preview of what we’re about to see in the rest of the country,” said Ben Wikler, the chairman of the Wisconsin Democratic Party. Mr. Wikler said that the Republicans had been seeking to stick to the April 7 in-person election date to ensure low turnout, which, he said, would be a potential boon to Mr. Kelly, the conservative judge up for re-election. “I think it creates a perceived opportunity, even if the public health consequences are ghastly,” Mr. Wikler said. He later tweeted that the Supreme Court decision would “consign an unknown number of Wisconsinites to their deaths.” In interviews, Republican county leaders largely played down the threat of the coronavirus. Facebook pages for one county urged residents to vote Tuesday in an important State Supreme Court election, saying “the Left is up to their Lawlessness and corrupt tactics to disrupt and turn the election.” Republicans portrayed Mr. Evers’s move as politically motivated. “I think this is a last-ditch effort to change the results,” said Jim Miller, the Republican county chairman in Sawyer County. “People will think it’s been moved until June. Even if it does go on, I don’t know how we put this back in the bottle.” Even some Democrats on Monday were uncertain whether the governor, whose office was stripped of considerable power by the Republican Legislature, would win the legal fight. In an interview earlier, Mayor Tom Barrett of Milwaukee would not directly say whether he felt the city’s residents should vote Tuesday. Mr. Barrett said holding an election under such circumstances went against “every tenet of public health,” but he also wanted people to participate. He never mentioned the possibility that the governor could use emergency powers to move the election. Early voters in his city had been proceeding apace. On Sunday, Isral DeBruin, a communications professional, was sitting in his Honda Accord, snaking his way in a line of cars to a poll worker, wearing a mask and gloves and holding a clipboard, who oversaw an early-voting drive-through station. Mr. DeBruin’s absentee ballot had not come yet in the mail, and with all the wrangling over the deadline, he decided to brave the viral elements and vote by car. “Nobody should have to do this,” he said. “I have no doubt there will be people who are disenfranchised because of this complete mishandling of democracy. Others will get sick. Some will die.” Our 2020 Election Guide Updated April 28, 2020 The Latest Hillary Clinton, during a virtual town hall-style event about the impact of the coronavirus on women, announced her support for Joseph R. Biden Jr. Coronavirus Election Calendar As the pandemic upends the 2020 campaign, several states have postponed or canceled their primary elections. We’re keeping track here. Keep Up With Our Coverage Get an email recapping the day’s news Download our mobile app on iOS and Android and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts Listen to our podcast, The Field, on Apple Podcasts and Spotify AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions