https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/06/us/politics/supreme-court-voting-wisconsin-virus.html
Supreme Court Blocks Extended Voting in Wisconsin - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics|Supreme Court Blocks Extended Voting in Wisconsin https://nyti.ms/2UQ6J3o The Coronavirus Outbreak debugid:204 • Latest Updates Maps and Tracker New Symptom List Markets Life at Home Newsletter AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Supreme Court Blocks Extended Voting in Wisconsin The 5-to-4 ruling was the court’s first in a dispute arising from the coronavirus pandemic, and suggested it may struggle to maintain an image of nonpartisanship as election disputes arise this year. Demonstrators near the Wisconsin State Capitol in Madison on Saturday showed their support for postponing Primary Day.Credit...Amber Arnold/Wisconsin State Journal, via Associated Press By Adam Liptak April 6, 2020 WASHINGTON — The Supreme Court on Monday issued its first ruling in a case arising from the coronavirus pandemic, refusing to extend the deadline for absentee voting in Tuesday’s elections in Wisconsin by six days. The vote was 5 to 4, with the court’s more conservative members in the majority. The split, with all of the justices appointed by Republicans endorsing the result sought by Republicans and all of the Democratic appointees in dissent, suggested that the court may struggle to maintain an image of nonpartisanship as it is called on to resolve what will almost certainly be a parade of election disputes this year. The justices in the majority, in an unsigned opinion, said the wisdom of proceeding with an election in the midst of a health crisis was not before them. “The court’s decision on the narrow question before the court should not be viewed as expressing an opinion on the broader question of whether to hold the election, or whether other reforms or modifications in election procedures in light of Covid-19 are appropriate,” the opinion said. “That point cannot be stressed enough.” The question for the court was, the majority wrote, a technical one: Was a federal judge entitled to change a state’s absentee-voting procedures just days before an election? The answer, the majority said, was no. “Extending the date by which ballots may be cast by voters — not just received by the municipal clerks but cast by voters — for an additional six days after the scheduled Election Day fundamentally alters the nature of the election,” the opinion said. In dissent, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg wrote that “the court’s order, I fear, will result in massive disenfranchisement.” Latest Updates: Coronavirus Outbreak in the U.S. 100 days, one million confirmed infections, and a country transformed. New C.D.C. statistics reveal more about the true toll. A report on the U.S. economy is going to be bad, and the Fed is weighing further interventions. See more updates Updated 48m ago More live coverage: Global Markets New York “Because gathering at the polling place now poses dire health risks, an unprecedented number of Wisconsin voters — at the encouragement of public officials — have turned to voting absentee,” she wrote. “About one million more voters have requested absentee ballots in this election than in 2016. Accommodating the surge of absentee ballot requests has heavily burdened election officials, resulting in a severe backlog of ballots requested but not promptly mailed to voters.” That justified a brief extension of the deadline for submitting absentee ballots, Justice Ginsburg wrote. “The majority of this court declares that this case presents a ‘narrow, technical question,’” she wrote. “That is wrong. The question here is whether tens of thousands of Wisconsin citizens can vote safely in the midst of a pandemic.” She said the majority had put voters in Wisconsin to an unacceptable choice. “Either they will have to brave the polls, endangering their own and others’ safety,” Justice Ginsburg wrote. “Or they will lose their right to vote, through no fault of their own. That is a matter of utmost importance — to the constitutional rights of Wisconsin’s citizens, the integrity of the state’s election process, and in this most extraordinary time, the health of the nation.” The Supreme Court’s ruling addressed a relatively narrow issue even as broader ones arose. Earlier on Monday, Gov. Tony Evers, a Democrat, issued an executive order delaying in-person voting and extending the deadline for the receipt of absentee ballots to June 9. Mr. Evers acted after the State Legislature, controlled by Republicans, refused to postpone the election. Within hours, the Wisconsin Supreme Court blocked Mr. Evers’s order. The case before the U.S. Supreme Court arose from a separate lawsuit that sought to delay the elections, which include both presidential primaries, a statewide Supreme Court race and local contests. A federal judge, despite expressing misgivings about the wisdom of proceeding with elections in a health crisis, said it was beyond his power to order a delay. But the judge, William M. Conley of the Federal District Court in Madison, did require a six-day extension, to April 13, of the deadline to submit absentee ballots. The federal appeals court in Chicago let the extension stand. Republican groups and the State Legislature, which is controlled by Republicans, asked the Supreme Court to undo Judge Conley’s ruling, calling it “a deeply consequential and disruptive change.” “It will inevitably sow confusion over when voters need to submit their absentee ballots,” their brief said. “A last-minute change to a voter deadline carries an increased risk that voters will not appreciate when votes actually must be cast.” The brief added that the new procedures could encourage voters to try to game the system by waiting to hear which candidates were ahead on Election Day and only then cast ballots. “Absentee voting should not be a procedure that gives some voters dramatically different incentives and information than others, permits advocacy groups to strategically chase down ballots that were not cast on Election Day and otherwise disrupts Wisconsin statutes that aim to separate cleanly the time for ballot casting and ballot counting,” the brief said. Anticipating the possibility of strategic behavior by voters, Judge Conley ordered officials not to release election results until April 13. The brief filed by Republican groups and lawmakers responded that Judge Conley was powerless to instruct officials not to make election returns public until the new deadline passed. In any event, they wrote, “it is doubtful and unrealistic for any court order to prevent widespread leaks about the progress of a controversial and hotly contested state election.” In response, Democratic groups, individual voters and a labor union urged the justices to allow voters to have the extra time in light of the dangers posed by in-person voting, the volume of requests for absentee ballots and slowdowns in mail delivery. “A minimum of tens of thousands of voters who have requested absentee ballots will probably not receive those ballots in time to mail them back on or before Election Day,” the brief said. Failing to extend the deadline will put lives at risk, the brief said. “If voters are not confident their absentee ballots will be counted, this will drive more people to vote in person on Election Day,” the brief said, “thereby increasing the risks of community spread through polling places in cities and towns throughout Wisconsin.” The brief said Judge Conley had the power to tell officials to withhold election results and dismissed the possibility of leaks as speculation. “Applicants simply have no evidence that absentee voters will know which candidate is ahead or behind in the period between April 7 and 13,” the brief said. The Coronavirus Outbreak Frequently Asked Questions and Advice Updated April 11, 2020 When will this end? This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days. How can I help? The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.) What should I do if I feel sick? If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. Should I wear a mask? The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. How do I get tested? If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. How does coronavirus spread? It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face. Is there a vaccine yet? No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away. What makes this outbreak so different? Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard. What if somebody in my family gets sick? If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently. Should I stock up on groceries? Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home. Can I go to the park? Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea. Should I pull my money from the markets? That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years. What should I do with my 401(k)? Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions