https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/11/us/politics/alaska-primary.html
Joe Biden Wins Alaska Primary - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics|Joe Biden Wins Alaska Primary https://nyti.ms/39YPOQh Latest Results National Map Delegate Count Election Calendar Who’s Running AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Joe Biden Wins Alaska Primary Alaska, which switched to all-mail voting because of the coronavirus outbreak, was the first primary since Senator Bernie Sanders dropped out of the race. Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. beat Senator Bernie Sanders in Alaska by 10 percentage points.Credit...Courtland Wells for The New York Times By Astead W. Herndon Published April 11, 2020Updated April 12, 2020 Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. won Alaska’s Democratic primary on Saturday night, the first nominating contest held since Senator Bernie Sanders dropped out of the race and made Mr. Biden the party’s presumptive presidential nominee. With all precincts reporting, Mr. Biden won 55 percent of the vote and Mr. Sanders won 45 percent. The state’s primary, which awards 15 pledged delegates, was turned into mail-in voting after concerns of the global coronavirus pandemic scrapped plans for in-person voting sites. Alaska had originally scheduled its primary for April 4, before the pandemic, but was among 16 states and Puerto Rico that postponed their voting because of the outbreak. Mr. Biden’s hold on the Democratic nomination, long likely since his romp on Super Tuesday, became all but official once Mr. Sanders left the race on Wednesday. Though several candidates still appeared on Alaska’s ballot, just as they would in other states, the former vice president is expected to cruise through the remaining primaries without complication. Alaska uses a ranked choice voting system. According to The Associated Press, the state Democratic Party received about 19,000 mail-in ballots, an increase in participation over the 2016 cycle — when the state used a caucus system. It continues a trend seen in several states this year, which has seen participation increase as they have switched from a caucus system to primaries. Mr. Sanders, in announcing the end of his campaign, said he would remain on the ballots in the coming primaries this spring and continue to accrue delegates for the nomination — a move that could give him leverage to influence the Democratic platform and continue carrying his message. At the same time, Mr. Sanders was clear that he was bowing out and that Mr. Biden would be the party’s nominee. In 2016, when Alaska held a Democratic presidential caucus, Mr. Sanders won overwhelmingly against Hillary Clinton. Our 2020 Election Guide Updated April 28, 2020 The Latest Hillary Clinton, during a virtual town hall-style event about the impact of the coronavirus on women, announced her support for Joseph R. Biden Jr. Coronavirus Election Calendar As the pandemic upends the 2020 campaign, several states have postponed or canceled their primary elections. We’re keeping track here. Keep Up With Our Coverage Get an email recapping the day’s news Download our mobile app on iOS and Android and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts Listen to our podcast, The Field, on Apple Podcasts and Spotify AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions