https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/16/us/politics/virus-primary-2020-ohio.html
Ohio’s Governor Postpones Primary as Health Emergency Is Declared Over Virus - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics|Ohio’s Governor Postpones Primary as Health Emergency Is Declared Over Virus https://nyti.ms/33rIqv5 The Coronavirus Outbreak debugid:204 • Latest Updates Maps and Tracker New Symptom List Markets Life at Home Newsletter AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Ohio’s Governor Postpones Primary as Health Emergency Is Declared Over Virus Gov. Mike DeWine ignored a court ruling and said the state’s health director was closing the polls on Tuesday based on worries that the coronavirus placed voters and poll workers in potential danger. Kathy Garrett voted early at the Franklin County Board of Elections in Columbus, Ohio, on Monday.Credit...Maddie McGarvey for The New York Times By Nick Corasaniti and Stephanie Saul March 16, 2020 Ohio’s governor on Monday night said he and top state health officials would ignore a court ruling and postpone Ohio’s presidential primary by declaring a public health emergency because of the coronavirus outbreak. The governor, Mike DeWine, said that the state’s health director, Dr. Amy Acton, had issued the order based on concerns that the coronavirus outbreak placed both voters and poll workers in potential danger. His announcement came just hours after Judge Richard A. Frye of the Franklin County Court of Common Pleas rejected the state’s request to push back voting to June 2. Early Tuesday morning, four members of the Ohio Supreme Court backed the decision to shut down the polls, rejecting a challenge filed by Corey Speweik, a judicial candidate in Wood County, near Toledo. “During this time when we face an unprecedented public health crisis, to conduct an election tomorrow would force poll workers and voters to place themselves at an unacceptable health risk of contracting coronavirus,” Mr. DeWine, a Republican, said Monday night on Twitter. He added: “While the polls will be closed tomorrow, Secretary of State Frank LaRose will seek a remedy through the courts to extend voting options so that every voter who wants to vote will be granted that opportunity.” Ohio was one of four states scheduled to vote on Tuesday. The other three — Arizona, Illinois and Florida — said that they planned to proceed with their elections while taking additional health precautions. Latest Updates: Coronavirus Outbreak in the U.S. Trump announced he would sign an order to address “liability problems” with the food industry. Trump would like schools to reopen before the summer, but only a few states seem to be considering it. The U.S. reaches 1 million known coronavirus cases. See more updates Updated 5m ago More live coverage: Global Markets New York Officials in Ohio had said as recently as Sunday that they would go forward with primary voting, but Mr. DeWine indicated that they had become increasingly worried about the safety of polling sites after the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention warned against gatherings of 50 or more people. By Monday afternoon, Mr. DeWine said he wanted the primary pushed back but did not have the authority to unilaterally delay the election and that a lawsuit would be filed to move the vote. On Monday evening, Judge Frye rejected the request. Dan Tierney, a spokesman for the governor, said Mr. LaRose would seek through the courts to have another date set for in-person voting in Ohio. Elections officials in the three other states scheduled to vote on Tuesday gave a range of reasons that they were pressing ahead. “We are fortunate to have numerous options in Florida to cast our ballots safely and securely,” Laurel Lee, the secretary of state, said at a news conference. She added that more than two million ballots had already been cast through early in-person voting and vote by mail. Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida added that he was committed to holding the elections, saying, “The fact of the matter is, these things can be done in a way where you’re not going to have crowds.” In Arizona, the state Democratic Party was seeing huge turnout in the form of early mail-in ballots, said Matt Grodsky, a party spokesman. “We believe that delaying the election would cause undue chaos to this election process,” he said. Katie Hobbs, Arizona’s secretary of state, said that “we have no guarantee that there will be a safer time to hold this election in the near future,” adding, “The longer we wait, the more difficult and dangerous it could become.” Kentucky, by contrast, announced on Monday that it was delaying its primary from May 19 to June 23. The announcement was made by Kentucky’s secretary of state, Michael G. Adams, in a video statement on Twitter. “Postponing the primary was not an easy decision, but the Republican secretary of state and Democratic governor agreed, and so do county clerks from both parties,” Mr. Adams said. “My hope is that this delay will allow us to have a normal election. Even if not, this delay will allow me, the state board of elections and our county clerks time to assess what changes we must make to ensure a successful primary election.” The proposed new date for the Kentucky primary, June 23, would fall outside the June 9 deadline set by the Democratic National Committee to hold all nominating contests, and could result in a loss of delegates. The moves to postpone elections on Monday came days after elections officials in Louisiana and then Georgia said they would push back their upcoming primary elections in response to the outbreak. On Friday, Louisiana announced that its April 4 election would be postponed by more than two months, to June 20; Georgia followed suit a day later, saying it would reschedule its March 24 contest for May 19. Kate Bedingfield, deputy campaign manager for former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., said in a statement after Mr. DeWine’s afternoon announcement, “We will follow the guidance offered by state public health officials for how to best ensure their populations are looked after while encouraging participation in our democracy.” Senator Bernie Sanders’s campaign declined to comment. The developments in Ohio added yet another logistical speed bump to a presidential primary that has already been upended by concerns that voting could worsen a public health crisis. Several other states have said they were changing or considering making changes to their voting processes and procedures in response to the outbreak. Wyoming suspended the in-person portion of its Democratic caucuses, allowing residents to either vote by mail or drop off their ballots at a county polling location instead. Postponements are highly unusual in American political campaigns, but not entirely unprecedented. States have broad autonomy to shape various aspects of their primary elections, including determining the timing. Reporting was contributed by Matt Stevens, Maggie Astor, Shane Goldmacher, Patricia Mazzei and Jennifer Medina. The Coronavirus Outbreak Frequently Asked Questions and Advice Updated April 11, 2020 When will this end? This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days. How can I help? The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.) What should I do if I feel sick? If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. Should I wear a mask? The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. How do I get tested? If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. How does coronavirus spread? It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face. Is there a vaccine yet? No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away. What makes this outbreak so different? Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard. What if somebody in my family gets sick? If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently. Should I stock up on groceries? Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home. Can I go to the park? Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea. Should I pull my money from the markets? That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years. What should I do with my 401(k)? Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions