https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/14/us/politics/georgia-primary-virus-2020.html
Georgia Postpones Its Primary as Virus Upends Voting - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics|Georgia Postpones Its Primary as Virus Upends Voting https://nyti.ms/3aYsbIm The Coronavirus Outbreak debugid:204 • Latest Updates Maps and Tracker New Symptom List Markets Life at Home Newsletter AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Georgia Postpones Its Primary as Virus Upends Voting Georgia joins Louisiana as the second state to delay voting because of the coronavirus. Arizona, Florida, Illinois and Ohio are still set to vote on Tuesday. A poll worker greeted early voters in Athens, Ga. The state has postponed its presidential primary, which had been scheduled for March 24.Credit...Joshua L. Jones/Athens Banner-Herald, via Associated Press By Stephanie Saul Published March 14, 2020Updated March 16, 2020 Georgia will postpone its March 24 presidential primary election for nearly two months, officials said Saturday, becoming the second state to delay voting in response to the coronavirus outbreak. The move comes as officials in the next four states scheduled to vote in the primary — Arizona, Florida, Illinois and Ohio — have all indicated they intend to hold their elections on Tuesday as planned, issuing a joint statement on Friday expressing confidence that ballots can be safely cast. Louisiana on Friday became the first state to postpone its primary, announcing that the April 4 election would be pushed back by more than two months. Georgia followed a day later, adding to the uncertainty that is upending the presidential race as people worry about gatherings and places where they might become infected and the candidates adjust to a new normal of “virtual campaigning.” The Georgia primary will now be held May 19, Brad Raffensperger, the Georgia secretary of state, said in a statement. “Events are moving rapidly and my highest priority is the health of our poll workers, their families, and the community at large,” Mr. Raffensperger said. “Given these circumstances, I believe it is necessary and prudent to suspend in-person voting in the presidential primary, and the local elections associated with them.” May 19 is the day of a previously scheduled election in Georgia, with primary elections for U.S. Senate and House races as well as local elections planned. Several other states this week said they were either implementing or considering changes to voting to address the outbreak. Wyoming suspended the in-person portion of its Democratic caucuses, saying residents would be able to either vote by mail or drop off their ballots at a county polling location. Officials in Connecticut, Maryland and Pennsylvania said they were considering various measures to encourage voting by mail. The Democratic Party of Georgia said it had endorsed the decision to delay the primary election in light of the public health emergency created by the coronavirus and the increased risk to both the public and poll workers. “Our priority is to protect the health and safety of all Georgians and to ensure that as many Georgians as possible have an opportunity to vote,” said State Senator Nikema Williams, the party chairwoman. “Continued in-person voting could compromise both goals.” Votes that have already been cast in person or by mail will still count, Ms. Williams said. Responding to the delay, the campaign of former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. reiterated a statement it made after Louisiana’s decision to delay its primary, to June 20. “Voting is at the very heart of who we are as a democracy,” the Biden campaign said. “As election officials working with public health officials are demonstrating throughout the country, our elections can be conducted safely in consultation with public health officials.” The decision by Georgia officials was mentioned briefly during a “fireside chat” live-streamed from Senator Bernie Sanders’s home in Burlington, Vt. on Saturday evening. At least 66 people have tested positive for the coronavirus in Georgia, and one person has died there, according to a New York Times database. Elections officials in the four states scheduled to vote on Tuesday have said they are taking extra precautions to prevent the spread of coronavirus at polling places, with plans to have hand sanitizer available and to sanitize voting equipment. Nick Corasaniti and Patricia Mazzei contributed reporting. The Coronavirus Outbreak Frequently Asked Questions and Advice Updated April 11, 2020 When will this end? This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days. How can I help? The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.) What should I do if I feel sick? If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. Should I wear a mask? The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. How do I get tested? If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. How does coronavirus spread? It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face. Is there a vaccine yet? No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away. What makes this outbreak so different? Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard. What if somebody in my family gets sick? If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently. Should I stock up on groceries? Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home. Can I go to the park? Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea. Should I pull my money from the markets? That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years. What should I do with my 401(k)? Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions