https://www.ajc.com/news/state--regional-govt--politics/georgia-mail-absentee-ballot-request-forms-all-active-voters/s1ZcJ57g8qqIwyG6LNWfIM/
All active Georgia voters will be mailed absentee ballot request forms
My Profile News News All News Local News Local Weather Local Traffic AJC Investigations Crime Education Coronavirus Business Nation & World AJC Columnists Opinion Obituaries Long-term Senior Care Georgia Politics Georgia Politics All Georgia Politics Political Insider Legislature Issues Georgia Elections Columnists National Politics Take Action Mike Luckovich County By County County By County All County By County Roswell Alpharetta Sandy Springs Dunwoody Intown Atlanta Clayton Cobb DeKalb Gwinnett North Fulton Coronavirus Coronavirus All Coronavirus People Helping People National & Regional News Remembering the Victims Event Cancellations News Coronavirus Travel News Schools & Business Updates Things To Do Things To Do All Things To Do Events in Atlanta Atlanta Restaurants Atlanta Music Scene AJC Dining Guides Food & Recipes Black History Month My Atlanta Flashback Photos Puzzles & Games Radio & TV Podcasts AJC Peachtree Road Race Life Life All Life Celebrity Buzz Home & Garden Health Inspire Atlanta Travel Atlanta Living & Arts Classifieds Videos Photos Private Quarters Clark Howard Celebrations Sports Sports All Sports Braves/MLB UGA/DawgNation Falcons/NFL Atlanta United/MLS Georgia Tech/ACC Hawks/NBA High Schools State Sports Report Scores & Stats In The Game with Harrah’s 1995 Braves World Series ePaper 61° Log In My Profile My Profile My Account Newsletters Events Our Products Activate My Account Logout Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Pinterest Share on Reddit Share via Email Log In My Profile My Profile My Account Newsletters Events Our Products Activate My Account Logout Worth knowing. Worth supporting. Subscribe today for $1.00 Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger announced Tuesday that the state will mail absentee ballot request forms to the state’s 6.9 million active voters ahead of the May 19 primary. (ALYSSA POINTER/ALYSSA.POINTER@AJC.COM) Photo: Alyssa Pointer Photo: Alyssa Pointer Georgia to mail absentee ballot request forms to all active voters Politics By Mark Niesse, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution All of Georgia’s 6.9 million active voters will be mailed absentee ballot request forms for the May 19 primary, a major push to encourage voting by mail during the coronavirus pandemic, Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger announced Tuesday. The absentee voting effort will allow Georgians to decide on their choices for president and other elected offices from home, without having to visit in-person voting locations where the coronavirus could more easily spread. Early voting and Election Day precincts will remain open. A large number of people voting by mail would be a significant change in the way elections are run in Georgia. While the state has allowed any voter to cast a ballot by mail since 2005, just 6% of voters did so in the 2018 election for governor. The state’s absentee ballot initiative follows an agreement by Raffensperger, a Republican, and the Democratic Party of Georgia to delay the previously scheduled March 24 presidential primary because of the coronavirus. The presidential primary will now be held May 19, along with races for the U.S. Senate, the U.S. House, the Georgia General Assembly and local offices. “Times of turbulence and upheaval like the one we Georgians face require decisive action if the liberties we hold so dear are to be preserved,” Raffensperger said. “I am acting today because the people of Georgia, from the earliest settlers to heroes like Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Congressman John Lewis, have fought too long and too hard for their right to vote to have it curtailed.” Voters will still be required to return their absentee ballot request forms before they receive an actual ballot. MORE: A map of coronavirus cases in Georgia MORE: Real-time stats and the latest news on the coronavirus outbreak Absentee ballot request forms will be mailed to voters next week. Then voters will choose whether they want to vote in the Democratic Party or Republican Party primary, sign their names, add a 55-cent stamp, and put the forms in the mail. County election offices will also accept absentee ballot requests by email. Then election officials will mail the appropriate ballot, which will be counted if it’s received by election offices by the time polls close at 7 p.m. May 19. State Sen. Nikema Williams, the chairwoman of the Democratic Party of Georgia, praised Raffensperger’s decision. The secretary of state’s office had previously considered only sending absentee request forms to older voters. “This global health emergency showcases exactly why we must embrace solutions that ensure every voter can cast their ballot and have their vote counted without risking their health or that of their loved ones,” Williams said. “I want to thank the secretary of state for putting the people before partisanship.” Williams said more changes are needed to protect voting rights. Election officials should count absentee ballots postmarked by Election Day, and absentee ballots and applications should include prepaid postage, she said. It will cost the state government and taxpayers about $13 million to mail the absentee ballot request forms and issue ballots. Mailing actual ballots to every voter instead of ballot request forms would have been more expensive. Election officials would have had to send three ballots — Democratic, Republican and nonpartisan — risking voter confusion and ballot rejections if voters returned more than one ballot. Georgia is an open primary state, meaning any voter can vote in any party’s primary election. The sharp ramp-up of absentee voting in Georgia could pose a challenge for election officials more accustomed to in-person voting, said Amber McReynolds, the CEO of Vote at Home, an organization that supports voting by mail. “When they’re going to send out applications, if they expect to get even 30% of them back, that’s a couple of million pieces of paper that’s going to have to be processed,” said McReynolds, a former Denver elections director. Before the presidential primary was postponed, about 275,000 voters cast ballots during early voting. Those ballots will still be counted. Voters who already participated in the presidential primary will receive ballots with other races during the May 19 election. Voters who haven’t yet participated in the presidential primary will receive ballots that include both presidential candidates and other candidates. “These steps are critical in this temporary environment to protect our poll workers and give our counties time to successfully plan for the Georgia general primary in May,” said state Senate President Pro Tempore Butch Miller, a Republican from Gainesville. Raffensperger said it’s also important to maintain in-person voting options for people who are homeless, need language assistance and have disabilities. In addition, eliminating in-person voting would disproportionately disenfranchise black, Latino and young voters, according to the secretary of state’s office, citing research from the Brennan Center for Justice, a policy institute at New York University that focuses on democracy and criminal justice. To protect in-person voters and poll workers, voting locations will be stocked with cleaning supplies for election equipment, Raffensperger said. Voters will be instructed to maintain a safe distance to limit the threat of spreading the coronavirus. Because many elderly poll workers have quit, Raffensperger said he will work to help county election offices hire younger poll workers who are less likely to be at risk from the coronavirus. Support real journalism. Support local journalism. Subscribe to The Atlanta Journal-Constitution today. See offers. Your subscription to the Atlanta Journal-Constitution funds in-depth reporting and investigations that keep you informed. Thank you for supporting real journalism. X Sign up for our newsletters About About the AJC Newsroom ethics code Frequently asked questions Careers Archive Contact Contact Us Send a News Tip Advertise AJC Newsroom Subscriptions Print Subscription Digital Subscription Manage Subscription Your Profile Why Subscribe? NIE/Newspapers in Education Products ePaper Newsletters Podcasts Download iOS App Download Android App Follow © 2018 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. All Rights Reserved. By using this website, you accept the terms of our Visitor Agreement and Privacy Policy, and understand your options regarding Ad Choices. Learn about careers at Cox Enterprises. hour1: 9:00 AM + 63 + 12 hour2: 10:00 AM + 65 + 11 hour3: 11:00 AM + 67 + 2 Log In My Profile Logout My Account Newsletters Events Our Products Activate My Account News News All News Local News Local Weather Local Traffic AJC Investigations Crime Education Coronavirus Business Nation & World AJC Columnists Opinion Obituaries Long-term Senior Care Georgia Politics Georgia Politics All Georgia Politics Political Insider Legislature Issues Georgia Elections Columnists National Politics Take Action Mike Luckovich County By County County By County All County By County Roswell Alpharetta Sandy Springs Dunwoody Intown Atlanta Clayton Cobb DeKalb Gwinnett North Fulton Coronavirus Coronavirus All Coronavirus People Helping People National & Regional News Remembering the Victims Event Cancellations News Coronavirus Travel News Schools & Business Updates Things To Do Things To Do All Things To Do Events in Atlanta Atlanta Restaurants Atlanta Music Scene AJC Dining Guides Food & Recipes Black History Month My Atlanta Flashback Photos Puzzles & Games Radio & TV Podcasts AJC Peachtree Road Race Life Life All Life Celebrity Buzz Home & Garden Health Inspire Atlanta Travel Atlanta Living & Arts Classifieds Videos Photos Private Quarters Clark Howard Celebrations Sports Sports All Sports Braves/MLB UGA/DawgNation Falcons/NFL Atlanta United/MLS Georgia Tech/ACC Hawks/NBA High Schools State Sports Report Scores & Stats In The Game with Harrah’s 1995 Braves World Series ePaper Forecast by Meteorologist Brian Monahan 61° Clear 9:00 AM 63° 10:00 AM 65° 11:00 AM 67° Facebook Twitter © 2020 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution Visitor Agreement | Privacy Policy | Contact Mobile Apps