https://www.nj.com/politics/2020/01/murphy-approves-fix-to-law-encouraging-voting-by-mail-after-it-was-killed-by-powerful-board.html
Murphy approves fix to law encouraging voting by mail after it was killed by powerful board - nj.com
Skip to Article Subscribe Home News›‹ Back To Main Menu News Coronavirus News by County›‹ Back To Main Menu Atlantic Bergen Burlington Camden Cape May Cumberland Essex Gloucester Hudson Hunterdon Mercer Middlesex Monmouth Morris Ocean Passaic Salem Somerset Sussex Union Warren All Newspapers›‹ Back To Main Menu The Star-Ledger The Times of Trenton The Jersey Journal South Jersey Times Hunterdon County Democrat Independent Press Business Crime Data Education Health Lottery New Jersey Marijuana Politics Traffic Weather #TogetherNJ NJ is Open* Politics Sports›‹ Back To Main Menu Sports Home Devils Eagles Giants Jets Phillies Rutgers Basketball Rutgers Football Rutgers Sports Seton Hall Yankees Entertainment›‹ Back To Main Menu Entertainment Home Jersey's Best Comics Events Food & Dining Puzzles Shopping Tips and Deals Opinion High School Sports›‹ Back To Main Menu NJ High School Sports LIVE Football Wrestling Boys Basketball Girls Basketball Boys Bowling Girls Bowling Boys Fencing Girls Fencing Subscribe to NJ.com Girls Ice Hockey Boys Skiing Girls Skiing Boys Swimming Girls Swimming Boys Winter Track Girls Winter Track Off Season Sports›‹ Back To Main Menu Baseball Boys Cross Country Girls Cross Country Field Hockey Boys Golf Girls Golf Gymnastics Boys Lacrosse Girls Lacrosse Boys Soccer Girls Soccer Softball Boys Tennis Girls Tennis Boys Track and Field Girls Track and Field Boys Volleyball Girls Volleyball NJ High School Sports LIVE NJ Cannabis Insider Betting Legal Notices Videos Conde Nast video Email Newsletters Obituaries Autos Jobs Real Estate›‹ Back To Main Menu Homes for Sale New Homes For Rent Foreclosures Commercial Real Estate News Resources›‹ Back To Main Menu Home Buying Sell My Home Rental Living Home Ideas Mortgages and Loans I’m Moving The Jersey Journal Rentals Classifieds›‹ Back To Main Menu Pets For Sale Garage Sales Fraud Prevention Manage Your Ad Local Businesses›‹ Back To Main Menu Find A Business Food & Dining Retail Shopping Health & Medicine Personal Care Entertainment Real Estate Automotive Claim Your Business Place An Ad NJ.com Store Mobile Apps Follow Us›‹ Back To Main Menu Visit our Facebook Page Follow us on Twitter View our Instagram photos See our Tumblr feed See our Pinterest page Subscriptions› Back To Main Menu Subscribe to NJ.com NJ Cannabis Insider NJ High School Sports LIVE Email Newsletters The Star-Ledger The Times of Trenton The Jersey Journal South Jersey Times Hunterdon County Democrat Back To Main MenuClose Customize Your Weather Set Your Location: Enter City and State or Zip Code Congratulations! Your weather is set to . You can change the location at any time. AccuWeather.com Quick Look Change your current location » Current Tonight TomorrowView Full Weather Report Subscribe Account Menu Sign in › Create your account › My Profile › Manage My Subscription Activate Digital Account Newsletters Help/FAQ Signed in as: Sign Out Back Search Please support the journalism YOU trust. Learn more » Politics Murphy approves fix to law encouraging voting by mail after it was killed by powerful board Updated Jan 23, 2020; Posted Jan 22, 2020 A mail-in ballot in Hudson County.courtesy photo By Brent Johnson | NJ Advance Media for NJ.com The controversial overhaul of New Jersey’s vote-by-mail system is now back on track after it was thrown out last year by a little-known yet powerful state board. Gov. Phil Murphy signed a bill into law Tuesday that fully funds — and thus resurrects — plans he approved in recent years to encourage more Garden State residents to vote by mail. Murphy approved a pair of laws in 2018 and 2019 to ensure that New Jerseyans who voted by mail in 2016 and beyond automatically are sent mail-in ballots for all subsequent elections, unless they request to opt out. But the New Jersey Council on Local Mandates invalidated the plans in November after it ruled the overhaul amounted to an unfunded mandate on the state’s 21 counties because it didn’t provide enough money to clerks who had to send out the influx of new ballots. Clerks issued more than 437,000 mail-in ballots last year than they had before, costing them $2.8 million, according to the New Jersey Association of Counties. Both houses of the New Jersey Legislature quickly passed this new bill (S4315), which provides $3 million to refund the clerks for last year’s election and sets aside annual money for the process. The state Senate passed it 36-4 and the Assembly 55-19. In the past, New Jersey voters who wanted to vote by mail in any election had to apply for a ballot by the deadline. Murphy and sponsors said the overhaul makes it easier for more people to vote. “We should be doing all that we can to encourage citizens to exercise their right to vote,” said State Sen. Shirly Turner (D-Mercer). “This will reinstate the reforms we made to the vote-by-mail system and ensure the progress we made to improve voting accessibility is not lost. By providing funding, this will ensure counties do not have to raise property taxes to cover the costs associated with these reforms.” Republicans opposed the overhaul, saying it was a ploy for Democrats to secure more support and that it could open the door to voter fraud. NJ Advance Media staff writer Matt Arco contributed to this report. Brent Johnson may be reached at bjohnson@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter @johnsb01. Have a tip? Tell us. nj.com/tips Get the latest updates right in your inbox. Subscribe to NJ.com’s newsletters. Note to readers: if you purchase something through one of our affiliate links we may earn a commission. Disclaimer Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement, Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement, and Your California Privacy Rights (each updated 1/1/20). © 2020 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local. Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site. Ad Choices