https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/13/us/politics/primary-voting-coronavirus.html
Louisiana Postpones April Primary as 4 More States Prepare to Vote on Tuesday - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics|Louisiana Postpones April Primary as 4 More States Prepare to Vote on Tuesday https://nyti.ms/2QrQQxx The Coronavirus Outbreak debugid:204 • Latest Updates Maps and Tracker New Symptom List Markets Life at Home Newsletter AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Louisiana Postpones April Primary as 4 More States Prepare to Vote on Tuesday Elections officials in Ohio, Florida, Illinois and Arizona, the next states on the primary calendar, are taking extra precautions but have expressed confidence that voting can be held safely. Caregivers for Robert Harrison, 96, helped him as he voted on Thursday in Hamilton, Ohio.Credit...Bryan Woolston/Reuters By Nick Corasaniti and Patricia Mazzei Published March 13, 2020Updated April 14, 2020 Louisiana will postpone its April 4 primary election for more than two months, officials announced on Friday, becoming the first state in the nation to adjust its elections in response to the coronavirus outbreak. The news comes as officials in the next four states scheduled to vote in the presidential primary — Ohio, Arizona, Florida and Illinois — have all indicated that they intend to hold their elections on Tuesday as planned, issuing a joint statement on Friday expressing confidence that ballots can be safely cast. The sudden decision by Louisiana comes as the viral outbreak has upended the presidential campaigns and people worry about gatherings and places where they might become infected. “Today I have certified that a state of emergency exists and requested that the governor issue an executive order postponing the elections this spring,” Louisiana’s secretary of state, R. Kyle Ardoin, said at a news conference Friday afternoon. “I want to thank the governor and his staff for working with us in a bipartisan manner to accomplish this mission.” The Democratic National Committee said in a statement that it would “continue to work with every state party as they adjust their delegate selection plans around coronavirus,” but that by moving its primary to June 20, which is past the June 9 deadline set by the D.N.C., Louisiana could face “a penalty that would include a state losing at least half of its delegates.” The announcement from Louisiana was followed by one from Wyoming, which suspended the in-person portion of its Democratic caucuses, scheduled for April 4. Residents will be able to either vote by mail or drop off their ballots at a county polling location. Advisers to the Democratic presidential front-runner, Joseph R. Biden Jr., quickly put out a statement in response to the decision in Louisiana, pointing to Tuesday’s primaries and asking those who feel healthy to “please vote.” To those who are “members of an at-risk population, exhibiting symptoms, or have been exposed to a diagnosed case of COVID-19, we encourage them to explore absentee ballots and vote by mail options,” the Biden campaign said. Latest Updates: Coronavirus Outbreak in the U.S. 100 days, one million confirmed infections, and a country transformed. New C.D.C. statistics reveal more about the true toll. A report on the U.S. economy is going to be bad, and the Fed is weighing further interventions. See more updates Updated 48m ago More live coverage: Global Markets New York Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, introduced a bill this week that would “require all states to offer an option for voters to mail in or drop-off a hand-marked, paper ballot” if more than a quarter of states declared a state of emergency because of the coronavirus. Elections officials in Ohio, Arizona, Florida and Illinois said they were taking extra precautions before voters head to the polls on Tuesday. Each secretary of state has sent out regular updates, reiterating recommendations from federal officials about preventive measures to stop the spread of the virus, and encouraging voting by mail or early voting. In all four states, the counties run the elections, but state officials have been trying to emphasize the new basics of voting hygiene, like keeping hand sanitizer at polling locations and making sure local officials properly clean machines. But at this point, officials in the four states do not plan to expand polling hours or shift mail-in-ballot deadlines. Perhaps the most significant change will be the relocation of polling stations away from areas where many older people live, like assisted-living facilities. Here’s a look at what is happening in each state. Ohio Frank LaRose, the Ohio secretary of state, has directed all county election boards to relocate voting locations that are near places where a high concentration of older people live, and county officials have been working to find new polling sites. On Wednesday, the county boards reported to the secretary of state’s office that they had identified 128 locations around the state that would need to be changed. In Hamilton County, home to Cincinnati, 26 polling locations have been moved. Ohio, which has declared a state of emergency in response to the coronavirus, has also expanded curbside drop-off of absentee ballots in response to the outbreak, to help keep those who are vulnerable away from crowds. As of Wednesday, the state had received roughly 336,000 absentee ballot requests, compared with about 328,000 at the same point in 2016. Another worry is the availability of poll workers, a volunteer group that skews older, and whose absence on Election Day could lead to longer lines and bigger crowds. In Ohio, the secretary of state’s office said it had been “proactively requesting additional recruitment from state and local government employees, outside organizations and even college students to step up and serve Ohio as poll workers.” “In fact, as of early this afternoon, we’ve had 582 Ohioans sign up to be poll workers just since Tuesday,” said Jon Keeling, the communications director for Mr. LaRose. “We’ve been thrilled with how many have stepped up.” Illinois Two of the largest voting jurisdictions in Illinois, Cook County and Chicago, obtained a court order on Thursday that will allow the counties to issue vote-by-mail ballots to all nursing home residents in their jurisdictions. The order also removes the requirement to send election judges into nursing homes to conduct voting. “Nursing homes around the state are withdrawing as polling places, so local election authorities are relocating polling places and sending out statutorily required notifications to affected voters,” said Matt Dietrich, a spokesman for the Illinois State Board of Elections. He said that included more than 100 locations in the Chicago area. Florida In Florida, which has also declared a state of emergency over the coronavirus, Gov. Ron DeSantis, a Republican, has urged county elections supervisors to move polling places out of assisted living facilities. “That’s problematic,” he told reporters on Wednesday in Tallahassee, the state capital, adding that residents should still be able to vote there, but not the general public. “I think there’s a way to do that,” he said. “That’s a prudent step to take.” The state has temporarily restricted visits to nursing homes, assisted living facilities, adult family-care homes, long-term care facilities and adult group homes to keep out international and cruise ship travelers and other people who might have been exposed to the coronavirus. In Broward County, where a small cluster of coronavirus cases has been tied to the Port Everglades seaport, the elections department plans to move six polling places out of assisted living facilities. Those locations asked for the change, but not all senior facilities have, in part because they want residents to have the convenience of voting there, said Steve Vancore, a spokesman for Supervisor Peter Antonacci. The department has bought “oodles” of soap, paper towels, rubbing alcohol and wipes, he added. It already had a supply of gloves. “We’re putting signs at every precinct encouraging everybody approaching to wash their hands,” Mr. Vancore said. “We have plenty of Purell hand sanitizer available. The poll workers are being asked and encouraged to wear gloves.” Poll workers will be wiping down voting booths “as they can,” he said. The Arizona secretary of state’s office has recommended that voters either cast ballots by mail, which should have been postmarked by Wednesday to be safe, or drop off a vote-by-mail ballot at a designated location before polls close on Tuesday. The secretary of state’s office also urged people to cast ballots in person at early-voting sites, which are open until Friday. In a news release on Wednesday, Katie Hobbs, the secretary of state in Arizona, said she wanted to “remind voters to make a plan for participating in this election.” In Maricopa County, the state’s largest and home to Phoenix, Adrian Fontes, the county recorder, attempted to begin sending ballots by mail to all voters that typically vote on Election Day and are eligible for the Democratic primary election, even if a voter had not yet requested one. But the state attorney general, a Republican, filed a lawsuit against Mr. Fontes and sought a temporary restraining order to prevent him from sending out the ballots. Without the proactively mailed ballots, the county had to relocate and consolidate roughly 80 polling locations. Now, instead of an assigned polling location, the county will allow voters to select from any of the remaining 151 locations across the county. Reid J. Epstein contributed reporting. The Coronavirus Outbreak Frequently Asked Questions and Advice Updated April 11, 2020 When will this end? This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days. How can I help? The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.) What should I do if I feel sick? If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. Should I wear a mask? The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. How do I get tested? If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. How does coronavirus spread? It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face. Is there a vaccine yet? No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away. What makes this outbreak so different? Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard. What if somebody in my family gets sick? If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently. Should I stock up on groceries? Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home. Can I go to the park? Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea. Should I pull my money from the markets? That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years. What should I do with my 401(k)? Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions