https://charity.gofundme.com/o/en/campaign/neediest-cases-fund-covid-relief
Covid-19 Relief Campaign
Skip to main content Search Campaigns Share on facebook Tweet Donate Sign in Why GoFundMe Charity Help Center Sign In Create New Campaign Story Share Donate Covid-19 Relief Campaign $1,528,910 of $2,000,000 goal 76% Complete Donate Share on Facebook Read Story Apr 01 2020 ABOUT THE FUND The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund has begun a special Covid-19 Relief Campaign for the spring of 2020. All proceeds will go to four nonprofit organizations that provide assistance to those facing economic hardship. The New York Times Company underwrites all administrative costs incurred by the fund, so every dollar donated goes to helping others. Recent stories from our campaign are available free to all readers. Please share the ones that resonate the most with you. To contact The Fund, email neediestcases@nytimes.com. About The Neediest Cases Fund Established in 1911 by Adolph S. Ochs, publisher of The New York Times, The Neediest Cases Fund has raised over $300 million since its inception. Throughout our history, The Fund has provided direct assistance to those who are facing tough times in New York and beyond. Many of the profiles in The New York Times featured an individual or family who benefited from The Fund and illustrated the difference that even a modest amount of money can make to those who are less fortunate. The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund has been recognized by the Internal Revenue Service as a not-for-profit public charity under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Contributions to the Neediest Cases Fund are tax-deductible to the extent permitted by law. Federal Identification Number: 13-6066063. A copy of the Neediest Cases Fund's latest annual financial report may be obtained, upon request, from the Fund or from the New York State Attorney General's Charities Bureau, Attn: FOIL Officer, 120 Broadway, New York, New York 10271. Beneficiary Organizations Feeding America Feeding America is the nation’s largest domestic hunger-relief organization, with a powerful and efficient network of 200 food banks across the country. For more than 35 years, it has responded to the hunger crisis by feeding 46 million people at risk of hunger. Annually, the organization helps one in seven Americans, providing over 4.3 billion meals. First Book First Book believes that education is the best way out of poverty for children in need. It aims to remove barriers to quality education for all children by making everything from new, high-quality books and educational resources to sports equipment, winter coats, snacks and more affordable to its 450,000-educator network. Since 1992, First Book has distributed more than 185 million books and educational resources to programs and schools serving children in more than 30 countries. New York Community Trust New York Community Trust has begun a Covid-19 Response and Impact Fund to support New York City-based social services and arts and cultural organizations that have been affected by the current coronavirus public health crisis. This fund will provide grants and interest-free loans to small and midsize nonprofits to help them respond to emerging needs, cover losses associated with the disruption of their operations, and help them continue their critical work. World Central Kitchen The chef José Andrés founded World Central Kitchen after the 2010 earthquake in Haiti with the belief that food can be an agent of change. Since then, it has served more than 15 million meals, expanded globally and developed into a group of chefs finding solutions to hunger and poverty. Today, it aims to empower people to help solve these issues, with a focus on health, education, jobs, and social enterprise. Posted by Neediest Cases Fund Share Share on Facebook Tweet Share Share Close Sharing Increases Donations Share your unique campaign link to see how much your shares help. Campaign Link or Send an Email Send a Text Message Join the Campaign To create your own fundraising page for this event, choose one of these easy options: GoFundMe Charity logo GoFundMe Charity logo © 2010 - 2020 GoFundMe Privacy