https://www.charitynavigator.org/index.cfm?bay=content.view&cpid=7779
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) : Charity Navigator
Disable all preview features For Charity Representatives Welcome, | My Charities | My Account | Sign out Sign in or Register | 0 Giving Basket Top Ten Lists Charities with Perfect Scores 10 Most Followed Charities 10 Charities Expanding in a Hurry 10 Most Frequently Viewed Charities 10 Celebrity-Related Charities 10 Super-Sized Charities 10 Charities Overpaying their For-Profit Fundraisers 10 Charities with the Most Consecutive 4-Star Ratings 10 Highly Rated Charities Relying on Private Contributions 10 of the Best Charities Everyone's Heard Of 10 Charities Worth Watching Hot Topics Sexual Assault Awareness Month Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Tennessee Tornadoes Immigration and Refugees Protecting the Environment Autism Awareness Month Charities with Bold Solutions: MacArthur Foundation 100&Change Grant Competition Tips for Donors Avoiding Charity Scams: Questions to Ask & Ways to Give Tips For Giving In Times Of Crisis Giving Statistics How to Protect Your Personal Data A Quick Guide to Deducting Your Donations Tax Benefits of Giving Five Steps to Informed Giving Questions To Ask Charities Before Donating Understanding Charitable State Registrations What To Do When A Charity Calls How To Manage Your Mailbox Protecting Yourself From Online Scams Evaluating Charities Not Currently Rated by Charity Navigator Guide To Donating Your Car Guide to Donating Noncash Items Guide To Volunteering Should You Buy that Charity Affiliated Product? Sector Analyzer Blog Support Charity Navigator Help Charity Navigator rate more organizations with your tax-deductible donation. Donate Now Other Ways To Give 0 Menu Name Only | Advanced | A-Z Directory | 4-Star Charities Help Center Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Highly-rated nonprofits providing relief and recovery to communities impacted by the pandemic Print Share Jump to the list of nonprofits responding >> The World Health Organization has classified the coronavirus outbreak as a global health emergency, and governments around the world are taking action to control the virus from spreading. The illness caused by the virus, COVID-19, has claimed the lives of tens of thousands around the globe and has sickened hundreds of thousands of people in more than 100 countries, including China, Italy, Spain, and the United States. A number of highly-rated charities have created funds to support communities around the world affected by the outbreak. Please consider supporting one of these trustworthy organizations today. Your support will help individuals and communities battle the coronavirus outbreak in the U.S. and around the globe. Interested in funding response and recovery efforts for those affected and for responders? The Center for Disaster Philanthropy, a charity that has earned a 4-star Charity Navigator rating and is also a trusted philanthropic partner of Google, has a COVID-19 Response Fund. This fund allows donors to give now to support preparedness, containment, response and recovery activities. Medical Services Relief Supplies: Health & Medical Cross-Categorical Funding Local Organizations Education & Awareness Relief Supplies: Community Support & Services Medical Services Partnering with medical teams to combat COVID-19. Organizations featured are based on their overall Charity Navigator score. To view all charities supporting this cause, click here. Partners In Health four stars Deborah Hospital Foundation four stars International Rescue Committee four stars Heart to Heart International four stars Save the Children four stars Howard Brown Health Center four stars Relief Supplies: Health & Medical Providing much-needed medical supplies to hospitals and health facilities. Organizations featured are based on their overall Charity Navigator score. To view all charities supporting this cause, click here. Good360 four stars Project C.U.R.E. four stars Convoy of Hope four stars Matthew 25: Ministries four stars Direct Relief four stars Water Mission four stars Cross-Categorical Providing much-needed assistance across multiple areas. Organizations featured are based on their overall Charity Navigator score. To view all charities supporting this cause, click here. Gary Sinise Foundation four stars Preemptive Love Coalition four stars CDC Foundation four stars Americares four stars GlobalGiving four stars Haitian Health Foundation four stars Funding Local Organizations Partnering with local organizations to ensure communities across the country have the resources and support they need. Organizations featured are based on their overall Charity Navigator score. To view all charities supporting this cause, click here. United Way Worldwide four stars United Way of Hall County four stars United Way of Greater Houston four stars BrazilFoundation four stars United Way of Washtenaw County four stars International Community Foundation four stars Education & Awareness Raising awareness of ways to prevent COVID-19 and how to cope with the stress it's causing. Organizations featured are based on their overall Charity Navigator score. To view all charities supporting this cause, click here. American Autoimmune Related Diseases Association four stars ActionAid USA three stars Prevent Child Abuse America four stars Sewa International, Inc four stars National Foundation for Infectious Diseases four stars Healthcorps three stars Relief Supplies: Community Support & Services Supporting the safety nets of our society and protecting the most vulnerable. Organizations featured are based on their overall Charity Navigator score. To view all charities supporting this cause, click here. Semper Fi & America's Fund four stars Family Promise four stars Crisis Aid International four stars Givedirectly Inc. four stars Central Pennsylvania Food Bank four stars Memorial Assistance Ministries four stars Share Hot Topics ▲ Sexual Assault Awareness Month Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Tennessee Tornadoes Immigration and Refugees Protecting the Environment Autism Awareness Month Charities with Bold Solutions: MacArthur Foundation 100&Change Grant Competition Join Our Mailing List Join over 400,000 other informed givers and get updates on charity ratings, new features, hot topics, and tips for donating. Thank you for your interest in Charity Navigator and Informed Giving As seen on About Us ▲ Overview Mission, Vision, and Goals Rating Methodology Financials and Policies Our Staff Our Board of Directors Products & Services ▲ Charity Navigator's API Ratings in Print Customized Charity Lists Media ▲ Press Room Articles Blog Link to Us Connect With Us ▲ Join Our Team Support Our Work FAQ Knowledge Base Contact Us Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Donor Privacy Policy | Copyright Notice Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Linkedin Copyright ©2020 | 139 Harristown Rd Suite 101 Glen Rock, NJ 07452 | EIN 13-4148824 | Bridge ID 3108588923 Charity Navigator 139 Harristown Rd Suite 101 Glen Rock, NJ 07452 EIN: 13-4148824 BRIDGE ID: 3108588923 Terms of Use Privacy Policy Sign in Support Charity Navigator Other Ways To Give My Charities My Account Top Ten Lists Hot Topics Tips for Donors Blog