https://www.redcrossblood.org/donate-blood/dlp/coronavirus--covid-19--and-blood-donation.html
What to know about the Coronavirus and Blood Donation | American Red Cross
Find a Blood Drive Sign In Español News & Promotions Visit RedCross.org Donate Blood Manage My Donations Schedule an Appointment Manage Existing Appointment Start RapidPass® View My Donation History Get Digital Donor Card How to Donate Find a Blood Drive Eligibility Requirements Types of Blood Donations Learn About Blood How Blood Donations Help Common Concerns Blood Donation Process Donation Process Overview What to do Before, During and After What Happens to Donated Blood First Time Blood Donors Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information COVID-19 and Blood Donation COVID-19 Convalescent Plasma Donation Hosting a Blood Drive Manage My Blood Drive Blood Program Leader Login Blood Program Leader Toolkit Premier Blood Partners Learn About Hosting Why Host a Blood Drive? How Hosting a Blood Drive Works Hosting a Blood Drive FAQ Host a Blood Drive Apply to Host a Blood Drive Start a Virtual Blood Drive Biomedical Services Hospital Partners Blood Products Blood Banking Resources Connect Online Ordering Invoice Central Case Reports Forms & Certificates Hospital Partner Contact Us Hospital News Hospital Partner Messaging Toolkit Patient Services Therapeutic Apheresis Services Contract Manufacturing Granulocytes Leukopacks Mononuclear Cell Collections Stem Cell Collection & Processing Perioperative Autologous Cell Salvage Blood & Diagnostic Testing Blood Group Serology HLA Testing Immunohematology Testing Molecular Testing Neutrophil Testing Platelet Serology Testing Diagnostic Manufacturing Products Infectious Disease Testing Education & Research Scientific Research Educational Resources SUCCESS Continuing Education Immunohematology Journal PLUS Newsletter Reimbursement Resources Transfusion Practice Guidelines Find a Blood Drive Home What to know about the Coronavirus and Blood Donation Give Blood, Help Save Lives Give Blood, Help Save Lives Healthy donors are encouraged to book an appointment. Healthy donors are encouraged to book an appointment. Make Your Appointment Thanks to the many who gave blood and scheduled upcoming appointments over the past couple of weeks, the American Red Cross has been able to meet immediate patient needs. During this uncertain time, we encourage individuals to keep scheduled blood, platelet or AB Elite plasma donation appointments and to make new donation appointments for the weeks ahead to ensure a stable supply throughout this pandemic. Donating blood products is essential to community health and the need for blood products is constant. As part of our nation’s critical infrastructure, healthy individuals can still donate in areas that have issued shelter in place declarations. The Red Cross follows the highest standards of safety and infection control, and volunteer donors are the only source of blood for those in need. There is no known end date in this fight against coronavirus and the Red Cross needs the help of blood and platelet donors and blood drive hosts to maintain a sufficient blood supply for weeks to come. In times of crisis, the Red Cross is fortunate to witness the best of humanity as people roll up a sleeve to help those in need. We greatly appreciate the generosity of the public to keep hospital shelves stocked during this uncertain time. Play Video “We need people to start turning out in force to give blood.” That urgent call-to-action coming from Peter Marks, M.D., Ph.D., director of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, as fear about the coronavirus is keeping people from wanting to donate blood. “You can still go out and give blood. We’re worried about potential blood shortages in the future. Social distancing does not have to mean social disengagement.” U.S. Surgeon General Red Cross Donation Safety Protocols The top priority of the Red Cross is the safety of our donors, volunteers, employees and blood recipients, and we are committed to transparency with the American public during this evolving public health emergency. There are no data or evidence that this coronavirus can be transmissible by blood transfusion, and there have been no reported cases worldwide of transmissions for any respiratory virus including this coronavirus. Donating blood products is essential to community health and eligible donors are strongly urged to donate blood, platelets, or AB Elite plasma. The Red Cross only collects blood from individuals who are healthy and feeling well at the time of donation – and who meet other eligibility requirements. At each blood drive or donation center, Red Cross employees follow thorough safety protocols, including:· Wearing gloves and changing them often Wiping down donor-touched areas after every collection Using sterile collection sets for every donation Preparing the arm for donation with aseptic scrub Conducting donor mini-physicals to ensure donors are healthy and well on day of donation We have also increased our vigilance concerning some of these safety protocols including: Enhanced disinfecting of surfaces and equipment Providing hand sanitizer for use before entering and throughout the donation appointment Temperature checks before presenting donors enter the blood drive or donation center Following social distancing practices between donors including donor beds, as well as waiting and refreshment areas During this time, blankets typically used by platelet, Power Red and AB Elite donors at Red Cross blood donation centers will be laundered after each use, which may limit the availability. Donors are encouraged to bring their own blankets, but electric blankets and heating pads are not permitted. Staff wearing basic face masks For the safety of our donor community and in accordance with CDC guidelines, all donors are required to wear a face covering or mask. Please bring a face covering or mask to your donation. If you do not have one, a mask will be provided to you. To ensure our staff are healthy each day, we have implemented standard staff health assessments prior to all blood drives. Finally, only eligible and healthy people are allowed to give blood. These mitigation measures will help ensure blood recipient safety, as well as staff and donor safety in reducing contact with those who may potentially have this respiratory infection. Book your blood, platelet or AB Elite plasma donation for the weeks ahead to help ensure a sufficient blood supply for patients in need. Travel and Deferral Information The American Red Cross has implemented new blood donation deferrals out of an abundance of caution. We are now asking that individuals postpone their donation for 28 days following: Travel to China and its special administrative regions, Hong Kong and Macau, as well as Iran, Italy and South Korea. Diagnosis of COVID-19, contact with a person who has the virus, or is suspected to have it. As the situation evolves, the Red Cross will continue to evaluate all emerging risks in collaboration with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and industry partners to determine if additional intervention strategies are needed. Together, we stand ready to keep the American public informed and prepared. If you are feeling healthy, please book an appointment to give blood, platelet or AB Elite plasma for the weeks ahead. Limit The Spread Of Germs and Prevent Infection There are common sense steps we can all take to prevent the spread of any respiratory virus: Avoid close contact with people who are sick. Stay home when you are sick. Cover your nose and mouth with a tissue when coughing or sneezing and throw the tissue away after use. If a tissue isn’t available, cough or sneeze into your elbow, not your hands. Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, especially after going to the bathroom; before eating; and after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing. If soap and water are not readily available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol. Always wash hands with soap and water if hands are visibly dirty. Avoid touching your eyes, nose or mouth. Practice other good health habits. Get plenty of sleep, be physically active, manage your stress, drink plenty of fluids and eat nutritious food. Disinfect doorknobs, switches, handles, computers, telephones, bedside tables, bathroom sinks, toilets, counters, toys and other surfaces that are commonly touched around the home or workplace. Where To Find More Information on Coronavirus (COVID-19) See frequently asked questions about coronavirus and blood donation Sign up to receive information about COVID-19 and blood donations. For the latest information, please visit the CDC website and Ready.Gov. If you live outside the United States, health and safety tips can be found through the World Health Organization. Information for Fully Recovered Coronavirus (COVID-19) Patients Patients who have fully recovered following a COVID-19 diagnosis may have antibodies in their blood plasma that can help those with serious or immediately life-threatening COVID-19 infections. Learn more about how recovered patients can help. Schedule a Blood Donation Schedule an AB Plasma Donation Schedule a Platelet Donation Sign Me Up For More Information © 2020 The American National Red Cross About Us Contact Us RedCross.org Terms of Use Privacy Policy Supporters