https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/03/world/coronavirus-news-updates.html?action=click&pgtype=Article&state=default&module=styln-coronavirus-national&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT&context=storyline_faq
Coronavirus Live Updates: C.D.C. Recommends Wearing Masks - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index World Today’s Paper World|C.D.C. Recommends Wearing Masks in Public; Trump Says, ‘I’m Choosing Not to Do It’ https://nyti.ms/3bMgQeZ The Coronavirus Outbreak debugid:204 • Latest Updates Maps and Tracker New Symptom List • Markets Life at Home Newsletter AdvertisementContinue reading the main story C.D.C. Recommends Wearing Masks in Public; Trump Says, ‘I’m Choosing Not to Do It’ Alabama became the 41st state to issue a stay-at-home order, and the attorney general expanded the pool of prisoners eligible for early release from federal prisons. Published April 3, 2020Updated April 28, 2020 This briefing has ended. Read our global live coverage on the coronavirus pandemic here. Here’s what you need to know: C.D.C. says all Americans should wear masks. Trump says the rule is voluntary. Trump will nominate an inspector general to oversee the Treasury’s $500 billion bailout fund. Barr expands early release of inmates at federal prisons with coronavirus cases. Death toll in New York soars to nearly 3,000 as state pleads for aid. Half the planet is on lockdown, but not every U.S. state is, even after Alabama issues an order. Texas reports its largest outbreak at a nursing home. Its staff members worked in at least seven others. Trump says U.S. election will take place on schedule in November, but opposes voting by mail. C.D.C. says all Americans should wear masks. Trump says the rule is voluntary. Video transcript Back bars 0:00/1:20 -1:20 transcript Trump on Mask Wearing: ‘I Don’t Think’ I’ll Do It In the daily White House coronavirus briefing on Friday, President Trump announced the C.D.C. recommended wearing a mask, but said he probably wouldn’t follow the guidelines. The C.D.C. is advising the use of non-medical cloth face covering as an additional voluntary public health measure. So it’s voluntary. You don’t have to do it. They suggested for a period of time. But this is voluntary. I don’t think I’m going to be doing it. These face coverings can be easily washed or reused. I want to emphasize that the C.D.C. is not recommending the use of medical-grade or surgical-grade masks and we want that to be used for our great medical people that are working so hard. The new mask guidelines also do not replace C.D.C.‘s guidance on social distancing, including staying in your home when possible, standing at least six feet apart for a period of time — aAgain, we’re going to all come back together here, wWe’re going to all come back together — and practicing hand hygiene, which we should do anyway. I’m feeling good. I just don’t want to be doing, I don’t know somehow sitting in the Oval Office behind that beautiful resolute desk the great resolute desk. I think wearing a face mask as I greet presidents, prime ministers, dictators, kings, queens. I don’t know, somehow I don’t see it for myself. I just, I just don’t. In the daily White House coronavirus briefing on Friday, President Trump announced the C.D.C. recommended wearing a mask, but said he probably wouldn’t follow the guidelines.CreditCredit...Doug Mills/The New York Times President Trump said on Friday that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention was urging all Americans to wear a mask when they leave their homes, but he immediately undercut the message by repeatedly calling the recommendation voluntary and saying that he would not wear one himself. “With the masks, it is going to be a voluntary thing,” the president said at the beginning of the daily coronavirus briefing at the White House. “You can do it. You don’t have to do it. I am choosing not to do it. It may be good. It is only a recommendation, voluntary.” “Wearing a face mask as I greet presidents, prime ministers, dictators, kings, queens — I don’t know,” he added, though he stopped receiving foreign dignitaries weeks ago. “Somehow, I just don’t see it for myself.” Mr. Trump’s announcement, followed by his quick dismissal, was a remarkable public display of the intense debate that has played out inside the West Wing over the past several days as a divided administration argued about whether to request such a drastic change in Americans’ social behavior. And it came at a particularly contentious briefing where the president insulted reporters, jousted with his own administration and returned to pugilistic form. Mr. Trump again dismissed the recommendation of Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, for a national stay-at-home order, saying he would leave such demands to the governors. But he did say that the federal government would pay hospitals to treat coronavirus patients, instead of allowing people to buy heavily subsidized insurance on the Affordable Care Act’s insurance exchanges, as many Democrats have urged. The mask debate has played out in public and in private. Mr. Trump said Americans who choose to comply with the C.D.C.’s recommendation should use a basic cloth or face mask, not medical- or surgical-grade masks that are used by hospital workers and emergency workers. He also said people must still follow social distancing guidelines, which he called the “safest way to avoid the infection.” Senior officials at the C.D.C. have been pushing the president for days to advise everyone — even people who appear to be healthy — to wear a mask or a scarf that covers their mouth and nose when shopping at the grocery store or while in other public places. Coronavirus Map: Tracking the Global Outbreak The virus has infected more than 3,058,000 people in at least 177 countries. Trump will nominate an inspector general to oversee the Treasury’s $500 billion bailout fund. President Trump said on Friday night that he planned to nominate a member of the White House counsel’s office to be the special inspector general to oversee the Treasury Department’s $500 billion bailout fund. Mr. Trump’s selection, Brian D. Miller, is a former federal prosecutor who spent nine years as the inspector general of the General Services Administration. Mr. Miller was nominated for that post in 2004 by President George W. Bush. The special inspector general is one of several oversight mechanisms created as part of the $2 trillion economic relief package that Congress passed last week. The position will be closely scrutinized as lawmakers from both parties have been calling for Mr. Trump to fill the role expeditiously to ensure that the stimulus money is doled out with transparency and that fraud and favoritism are avoided. The president alarmed some in Congress last week when, after signing the legislation, he released a statement that suggested he had the power to decide what information the inspector general could share with Congress. Mr. Miller joined the White House, where he is a special assistant to the president and a senior associate counsel, in December 2018. That role is expected to be a red flag for Mr. Trump’s critics, who have accused the White House of stonewalling Congress and withholding information during various investigations as well as the president’s impeachment inquiry. Barr expands early release of inmates at federal prisons with coronavirus cases. Image At least five inmates have died because of the coronavirus at the federal prison in Oakdale, La.Credit...Rogelio V. Solis/Associated Press Attorney General William P. Barr ordered the Bureau of Prisons on Friday to expand the group of federal inmates eligible for early release and to prioritize those at three facilities where known coronavirus cases have grown precipitously, as the virus threatens to overwhelm prison medical facilities and nearby hospitals. Mr. Barr wrote in a memo to Michael Carvajal, the director of the Bureau of Prisons, that he was intensifying the push to release prisoners to home confinement because “emergency conditions” created by the coronavirus have affected the ability of the bureau to function. He directed the bureau to prioritize the release of prisoners from federal correctional institutions in Louisiana, Connecticut and Ohio, which comprise the bulk of the system’s 91 inmates and 50 staff members who have tested positive for the coronavirus. At least five inmates have died at the federal prison in Oakdale, La., and two have died at the federal prison near Elkton, Ohio. Officials with unions that represent prison workers have said that the reported numbers are likely undercounting the number of infected staff, given the paucity of testing. Death toll in New York soars to nearly 3,000 as state pleads for aid. Video transcript Back bars 0:00/1:38 -1:38 transcript ‘It Can’t Be That We Can’t Make These,’ Cuomo Says of P.P.E. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York urged companies to ramp up production of personal protective equipment like masks. The number of tests has reached a new high. We did over 21,000 tests. Thank you to our great Health Department. We have over 10,000 new cases, 102,000 total tested positive, 14,000 hospitalized, 3,700 I.C.U. patients, 8,800 patients discharged. That’s good news. Number of deaths: highest single increase in the number of deaths since we started. We’ll finance the transition necessary to make these materials. I mean we talk about them as if they’re very complicated. This is an N95 mask. This is it. It was 70 cents before this started, it’s now as high as $7. But this is all that an N95 mask is, it’s fabric, it’s material. The F.D.A. has the specifications, and then it’s two pieces of elastic cord. It can’t be that we can’t make these. We can redeploy what we have — personnel, equipment to whatever locality is next. Now it’s not a perfect sequential timing, but if you look at the projected curves when it’s going to hit Michigan, when it’s going to hit Illinois, when it’s going to hit Florida, you’ll see that there is a timing sequence to it. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York urged companies to ramp up production of personal protective equipment like masks.CreditCredit...Peter Foley/EPA, via Shutterstock New York, the increasingly battered epicenter of the nation’s coronavirus outbreak, on Friday reported its highest number of deaths in a single day, prompting state officials to beg the rest of the United States for assistance and to enact an emergency order designed to stave off medical catastrophe. [Analysis: The coronavirus inflicts its own kind of terror.] In the 24 hours through 12 a.m. on Friday, 562 people — or one almost every two-and-a-half minutes — died from the virus in New York State, bringing the total death toll to nearly 3,000, double what it was only three days before. In the same period, 1,427 newly sickened patients poured into the hospitals — another one-day high — although the rate of increase in hospitalizations seemed to stabilize, suggesting that the extreme social-distancing measures put in place last month may have started working. Despite the glimmer of hope, the new statistics were a stark reminder of the gale-force strength of the crisis that is threatening New York, where more than 102,000 people — nearly as many as in Italy and Spain, the hardest-hit European countries with about 120,000 cases each — have now tested positive for the virus. The situation, as it has been for weeks, was particularly dire in New York City, where some hospitals have reported running out of body bags and others have begun to plan for the unthinkable prospect of rationing care. “It is hard to put fully into words what we are all grappling with as we navigate our way through this pandemic,” Vicki L. LoPachin, the chief medical officer of the Mount Sinai Health System, wrote in an email to the staff on Friday. “We are healing so many and comforting those we can’t save — one precious life at a time.” Around the country, the total number of coronavirus cases spiked sharply as of Friday afternoon, exceeding 275,000, with more than 7,000 total deaths. After New York, New Jersey was the state with the highest rate of infection. Globally, more than one million people had been infected and nearly 60,000 had died. Dr. Deborah Birx, the White House coronavirus response coordinator, said Friday that the government would “move supplies creatively around the country to meet the needs of both the front line health care providers but also every American who needs our support right now.” The Pentagon is considering letting two Navy hospital ships dispatched to New York and California take patients who test positive for the novel coronavirus, Defense Department officials said Friday. A decision could come in the next few days. Half the planet is on lockdown, but not every U.S. state is, even after Alabama issues an order. Nearly four billion people on the planet — half of humanity — found themselves on Friday under some sort of order to stay in their homes. But some U.S. states are still resisting the most stringent measures, including North and South Dakota, Nebraska and Iowa. So was Alabama, until Friday evening, when Gov. Kay Ivey announced that she was issuing a stay-at-home order statewide, effective 5 p.m. local time on Saturday. Ms. Ivey had urged residents to stay at home and ordered the closure of nonessential businesses. But as the number of cases rose at a fast clip this week, she said the previous measures had not been enough to stop the virus’s spread. “It is now the law,” Ms. Ivey said of the stay-at-home order at a news conference on Friday afternoon. “Bottom line: Folks just aren’t paying attention.” See Which States and Cities Have Told Residents to Stay at Home In an attempt to stop the spread of the coronavirus, a vast majority of states and the Navajo Nation have given directives, affecting more than nine in 10 U.S. residents. Gov. Greg Abbott of Texas had denied on Tuesday that his newly toughened social-distancing rules amounted to a statewide stay-at-home order, but his spokesman acknowledged Friday that they did. Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak Pandemic forces a rethinking of summer plans and immunization programs. Faith in the central government fractures over France’s coronavirus response. Across Europe, a struggle to save the summer vacation. See more updates Updated 7m ago More live coverage: Markets U.S. New York Asked at his daily White House news briefing if he might issue a national stay-at-home order, President Trump demurred. “I leave it up to the governors,” he said. Dr. Anthony Fauci, the nation’s leading infectious disease expert, said that he believed that social-distancing measures should be extended to every state. “You know, the tension between federally mandated versus states’ rights to do what they want is something I don’t want to get into,” he told CNN on Thursday. “But if you look at what’s going on in this country, I just don’t understand why we’re not doing that.” But the virus’s ferocious global assault continues. At least one million infections have been detected worldwide, but experts suspect the true number is far larger because of asymptomatic cases and delays in widespread testing. The Australian medical chief estimated that there are between five million and 10 million cases. [Analysis: The autocrats’ dilemma: You can’t arrest a virus.] More U.S. governors have invoked their “police powers” to order businesses closed to combat the pandemic, and some Americans are turning to the courts, either suspicious of such sweeping measures or in the hope of protecting their livelihoods. Specific, local grievances, like a Pennsylvania golf course that wants to be declared “life-sustaining” so it would not be subject to a closure order, are at the root of various lawsuits rooted in the Fifth Amendment, which requires due process and guarantees compensation for property seized by the government. Other constitutional amendments have been invoked in numerous cases attempting to force open gun stores, or to argue that efforts to curb the virus should not outweigh rights like freedom of assembly and religion. “Those may be serious, but they may also be part of an attempt to make an argument in the press about overreach,” said Tom Burke, a political-science professor at Wellesley College who studies the politics of litigation. Texas reports its largest outbreak at a nursing home. Its staff members worked in at least seven others. A coronavirus outbreak at a San Antonio nursing home has infected 66 of the facility’s 84 residents and killed an additional resident, the largest spread of the virus at a Texas long-term care facility, city and county officials said Friday. Eight of the facility’s workers have already tested positive, and a number of the staff members have worked at other nursing homes in the San Antonio region. Local officials were rushing Friday to perform additional tests and to track down all 60 employees at the facility, the Southeast Nursing and Rehabilitation Center. “This morning we launched an aggressive, multilayered response to try to get our arms around the extent of this local outbreak,” Charles Hood, the San Antonio fire chief, said at a news conference on Friday. Two of the eight infected employees worked in other facilities, and those employees who have not been tested worked in at least seven nursing homes in the city. Such crossover of workers at multiple sites was one of the factors that contributed to a deadly coronavirus outbreak in nursing homes near Seattle, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said in a recent report. In San Antonio, medical-response teams were visiting the seven facilities where Southeast employees may have worked to test all residents and workers who show symptoms. Officials were also planning to visit and evaluate 34 nursing homes that have received the lowest federal ratings. City officials on Friday amended previously issued emergency orders, to prohibit nursing-home employees from working in multiple facilities. Trump says U.S. election will take place on schedule in November, but opposes voting by mail. President Trump would not say, in response to a question, whether he is taking steps to ensure that the 2020 presidential will take place as scheduled if the coronavirus is still present this fall, but he insisted the election would not be postponed. “The general election will happen on Nov. 3,” Mr. Trump said. Mr. Trump added that he does not approve of voting by mail, an idea gaining currency amid concerns that in-person voting would expose people to the coronavirus. “I think a lot of people cheat with mail-in in voting,” he said. “It should be, you go to a booth and you proudly display yourself.” “It shouldn’t be mailed in,” he added. “You should vote at the booth and have voter ID.” On Sunday, former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. said that all states “should be beginning to plan” for the possibility of conducting their elections by mail because of the coronavirus pandemic. “I don’t want to go that far ahead, but that is possible,” Mr. Biden, who is seeking the Democratic nomination for president, said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” “I think we should be looking into all-mail ballots across the board to begin with because it’s an easier way for people to vote.” Does Covid-19 hit women and men differently? The U.S. isn’t keeping track. We know, based on data collected in China, Italy, South Korea and Spain and other countries, that men are more likely to die of coronavirus than women. But the United States — which is collecting data on the ages of confirmed cases and of those who die — is not breaking down its data by sex. These figures would be informative to vaccine production efforts, in large part because viruses affect women and men differently, health experts say. Men and women are also likely to have different reactions to vaccines and drugs. Multiple viruses in the past — including for SARS, influenza, H.I.V. and Ebola — were found to have different effects on men and women. A recent study from Huazhong University of Science and Technology in Wuhan, China, found that women infected with the coronavirus had a higher level of antibodies than men. “That, in and of itself, should be evidence for why every country should be disaggregating their data,” said Sabra Klein, a scientist who studies sex difference in viral infections at Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. Yet, the latest update on cases and deaths in the United States from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention contained no mention of male and female patients. When asked why, a spokesperson for the C.D.C. said the agency simply does “not have that information to share at this time” and “additional investigation is needed.” And the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease — which is already running phase one trials of a potential vaccine, enabling researchers to “identify side effects” and determine dosage — said that at this moment, it will explore only age and sex “as part of subgroup analysis.” Location Data Says It All: Staying at Home During Coronavirus Is a Luxury As the virus continues to spread throughout the nation, an analysis of cellphone data shows that those in the wealthiest areas have been able to reduce their movements more than those in the poorest areas. German and French officials accuse Americans of intercepting masks about to be flown to Europe. Local officials in Germany and France have accused American buyers of outbidding them for protective masks that had been lined up for medical workers fighting the coronavirus in Europe. The masks, they claim, were already at Asian airports, about to be shipped. A Berlin city legislator said unidentified Americans somehow acquired 200,000 protective masks that had been meant for first-responders and hospital workers in the German capital. “We consider it an act of modern piracy,” German legislator Andreas Geisel was quoted as saying Friday by the Der Tagesspiegel newspaper. “That’s no way to deal with trans-Atlantic partners.” German media reported that the masks had been at the airport in Bangkok, where they were supposed to have been loaded onto a Germany-bound plane, but instead were diverted to a plane bound for the United States. Another shipment of protective masks was in China and bound for the Paris region when, French officials say, it was purchased by unidentified American buyers offering more money. “We had a shipment bought up by Americans who outbid a shipment we identified,” Valérie Pécresse, who leads the Paris region, said Thursday on French television. Two other French regional leaders — Jean Rottner of the Grand Est region and Renaud Muselier of the southeastern Provence-Alpes-Côte d’Azur region — have made similar accusations in French media, asserting that American buyers made the transactions on the airport runway. “It’s true — on the tarmac, the Americans arrive, show the cash, and pay three or four times more for the orders we made,” Mr. Rottner told a French radio station. “So we really have to fight.” In a statement released on Friday, the U.S. Embassy in France said that “the United States government has not purchased any masks intended for delivery from China to France,” adding that “reports to the contrary are completely false.” Small businesses desperate to save themselves scrambled for a share of $350 billion in loans. The frenzy began even before most banks opened. By 9 a.m. on Friday, banks had already processed 700 loans totaling $2.5 million for small businesses as the spigot opened on a federal emergency relief program. But that was just the beginning. By early afternoon that number had ballooned to $1.8 billion. And by evening it was $3.2 billion in loans that will go to more than 10,000 small businesses desperate to save themselves. It was all part of a scramble by small businesses around the country to stay alive by grabbing a piece of a Treasury Department program to pump $349 billion into the sputtering U.S. economy. Small businesses, which employ nearly half of America’s private-sector workers, are hemorrhaging, and the loans are meant to help them retain employees or rehire those they let go because of the coronavirus pandemic. But business owners found that applying for the money was harder than they had anticipated. Lenders had received guidance from the Treasury Department only the night before, just hours before they were to start making loans. On top of that, banks imposed their own rules on which businesses could and couldn’t borrow. And many lenders, including JPMorgan Chase, the nation’s largest, didn’t have their websites ready for borrowers until later Friday. “I’ve been up all night,” said Jeremy Resnick of Jacksonville, Fla., who runs several businesses, including a real estate brokerage and a chain of ice cream stores. “They put out these rays of hope for people, and the reality behind it isn’t there.” With joblessness soaring, Pelosi says it’s time to “go bigger” on another economic relief bill. Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Friday called for another sweeping government aid package to build on the more than $2 trillion stimulus enacted last week, indicating that Democrats would wait to pursue an infrastructure plan and instead focus on urgent action to help Americans weather the economic shocks brought on by the pandemic. “We must extend and expand this bipartisan legislation to meet the needs of the American people,” Ms. Pelosi, Democrat of California, said in a statement Friday after the release of devastating job figures that reflected the beginning of the virus’s impact on the labor market. “It is imperative that we go bigger and further assisting small business, to go longer in unemployment benefits and provide additional resources,” to process jobless claims, “and more direct payments for families,” she said. It was only a few days ago that Ms. Pelosi called for the next phase of virus aid legislation to include an expansive infrastructure program to create thousands of jobs, a goal that was quickly endorsed by Mr. Trump but panned by Republican leaders who said it had nothing to do with confronting the crisis. The global economy has been shaken by the coronavirus pandemic, and 10 million jobs in the United States have been vaporized in just two weeks. Global stocks, which had surged on Thursday after a wishful tweet from Mr. Trump about the oil markets, dipped again on Friday amid growing fears that the pain will be profound and prolonged. While Republican leaders have cast doubt on whether another relief bill would be necessary, Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, reversed course on Friday. “There will be a next measure,” he told The Associated Press. U.S. tries to bar 3M from exporting face masks. The Trump administration is trying to use its wartime powers to cut off 3M’s ability to export face masks abroad, as well as claim more of the masks the company manufactures in other countries for use in the United States. Such a policy would be a dramatic expansion of the U.S. government’s reach as it seeks to procure much-needed protective gear for American health care workers. But some trade and legal experts fear new mandates could backfire, causing other governments to clamp down on exports of masks, ventilator parts and pharmaceuticals that the United States desperately needs. They have also questioned whether the Defense Production Act gives the government the authority to commandeer goods made beyond United States borders. Peter Navarro, the White House trade adviser overseeing Defense Production Act policy, said Thursday evening that an executive order the president signed was aimed at directing 3M’s production to the Americans who need it most. “To be frank, over the last several days we’ve had issues making sure that all of the production that 3M does around the world, enough of it is coming back here to the right places,” he said. “We’re going to resolve that issue with 3M probably by tomorrow, close of business. Because we can’t afford to lose days or hours or even minutes in this crisis.” In a statement on Friday, 3M said that the administration had requested that 3M increase the amount of respirators the company imports from its overseas operations into the United States, and that 3M was complying. Earlier this week, it secured approval from China to export to the United States 10 million N95 respirators the company makes in China, it said. The company added that the administration had also asked 3M to stop exporting respirators that are manufactured in the United States to Canada and Latin America — a request it said carried “significant humanitarian implications” for people in those countries. The U.S. job market is crumbling, and stocks decline. The U.S. economy had added jobs for 113 months in a row, dating from the early period of the recovery from the Great Recession. That has come to an end. The Labor Department reported on Friday that employers shed 701,000 jobs in March. That number, while staggering, is expected to worsen in coming months. The data released on Friday was mostly collected in the first half of the month, before stay-at-home orders began to cover much of the nation. Nearly 10 million people applied for unemployment benefits in the past two weeks. “This is nothing compared to what we’re going to see,” said Stephanie Pomboy, president of MacroMavens, an independent research firm. Indeed, the March unemployment rate of 4.4 percent could rise to double digits as soon as next month. U.S. stocks opened lower on Friday after a drop in Europe, setting up a downbeat end to another turbulent week in financial markets. The S&P 500 fell about 1.5 percent on Friday as investors digested more painful economic data — this time, the monthly employment report from the Labor Department that showed a long run of job growth had ground a halt in March. Oil prices rose sharply, extending Thursday’s gains on word that major oil producers would meet to discuss the falling demand for petroleum. Brent crude, the international benchmark, rose as much as 10 percent. The dead are being buried, quietly, in China, amid questions over its death toll. For months, the residents of the central Chinese city of Wuhan were told they could not pick up the ashes of their loved ones who had died during the height of the nation’s outbreak. Now that the authorities say the epidemic is under control, officials are pushing the relatives to bury the dead quickly and quietly, and they are suppressing online discussion of fatalities as doubts emerge about the true size of the toll. China’s official death toll from the virus stood at 3,322 on Friday, but medical workers and others have suggested the count should be higher. The C.I.A. has warned the White House for weeks that China vastly understated its epidemic, current and former American intelligence officials say. As China tries to control the narrative, the police in Wuhan, where the pandemic began, have been dispatched to break up groups on WeChat, a popular messaging app, set up by the relatives of virus victims. Government censors have scrubbed images circulating on social media showing relatives in the city lining up at funeral homes to collect ashes. And when Liu Pei’en mourned the loss of his father in Wuhan, he said, officials insisted on accompanying him to the funeral home and later followed him to the cemetery, where he saw one of his minders taking photos of the brief funeral. “My father devoted his whole life to serving the country and the party,” Mr. Liu, 44, who works in finance, said by phone. “Only to be surveilled after his death.” A Russian doctor is detained after challenging the country’s official count of coronavirus cases. Russian authorities detained the leader of an independent doctors’ union, an outspoken critic of the Kremlin who has dismissed as “lies” the country’s low official numbers for coronavirus infections. Anastasia Vasilieva, the head of the Alliance of Doctors, was stopped by the police on Thursday and held overnight while traveling from Moscow to an impoverished rural town to deliver masks, gloves and other supplies to a hospital, according to a colleague who was traveling with her. The detention of Dr. Vasilieva, an eye specialist who has been highly critical of Russia’s response to the pandemic, added fuel to already widespread skepticism, particularly among Kremlin critics, about the accuracy of official figures showing relatively few coronavirus cases in Russia. Her detention also increased skepticism about the readiness of Russia’s health care system to cope with the pandemic. A group of doctors at a hospital in St. Petersburg, Russia’s second biggest city, released a video on Friday appealing to the public for help in obtaining the protective equipment they said they needed to treat coronavirus patients. Maria Bakhldina, the head doctor at the hospital, speaking to Fontanka, a news site in the city, dismissed the doctors complaints as “untrue.” The Pentagon is considering letting two Navy hospital ships accept coronavirus patients. Navy hospital ships dispatched to New York and California could end up taking patients who test positive for the novel coronavirus, Defense Department officials said Friday, in a turnaround from previous policy that sought to keep the ships virus-free. General Mark A. Milley, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said that the Defense Department is “reassessing” whether to allow coronavirus patients aboard the ships, the Comfort and the Mercy. A decision could come in the next few days. His comments came after New York hospital executives complained Thursday that the Comfort was sitting in New York Harbor largely empty while hospitals in the city were overrun. By late Thursday, only 20 patients had been transferred to the Comfort, even as New York hospitals struggled to find space for the thousands infected with the coronavirus. The Mercy, docked in Los Angeles, had a total of 15 patients as of Thursday night, officials said. Defense Department officials initially said that the ships would not treat patients with Covid-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus, because the ships were configured for trauma rather than infectious diseases. The mission was to relieve local hospitals of non-virus cases. As the world has learned, ships are vessels where viruses have been shown to spread with frightening ease. But the disappointment and anger in New York is leading to a rethinking of the Defense Department’s initial plans. “The U.S. military is here and we are here to help,” General Milley said. Defense Department officials say a decision could come in the next few days. Jared Kushner said the nation’s medical stockpile was federal, not the states’. Its website now agrees. A description on the Health and Human Services website for its Strategic National Stockpile was altered in the last several hours to change a reference to its role helping state and local responders during emergencies when their own resources are depleted, a day after Mr. Trump’s senior adviser and son-in-law, Jared Kushner, described the stockpile as existing for the federal government, not the states. The new version shifts responsibility away from the federal government and to the states. Appearing at a news conference with the president on Thursday, Mr. Kushner said that the federal stockpile was not there for states to rely on. “The notion of the federal stockpile was it’s supposed to be our stockpile,” Mr. Kushner said. “It’s not supposed to be states’ stockpiles that they then use.” Previously, the website’s description of the stockpile read, “Strategic National Stockpile is the nation’s largest supply of life-saving pharmaceuticals and medical supplies for use in a public health emergency severe enough to cause local supplies to run out.” “When state, local, tribal and territorial responders request federal assistance to support their response efforts, the stockpile ensures that the right medicines and supplies get to those who need the most during an emergency.” It added, “Organized for scalable response to a variety of public health threats, this repository contains enough supplies to respond to multiple large-scale emergencies simultaneously.” Now, in a change first spotted by the journalist Laura Bassett, the website says that the role is to “supplement state and local supplies during public health emergencies. Many states have products stockpiled as well.” “The supplies, medicines and devices for lifesaving care contained in the stockpile can be used as a short-term stopgap buffer when the immediate supply of adequate amounts of these materials may not be immediately available.” On Friday, when President Trump was asked if he could assure New Yorkers that there would be enough ventilators next week, he replied, “No. They should have had more ventilators.” When asked about Mr. Kushner’s statement about “our stockpile” from a day earlier, Mr. Trump grew angry. “When he says ‘our,’ he is talking about our country, the federal government,” he said, saying the question was asked in a “nasty” tone. Britain has its deadliest day as the government races for an “immunity passport.” Britain is drawing up plans to issue an “immunity passport” for key workers that would certify those who have recovered from coronavirus — and carry antibodies identifiable by a blood test — that would allow them to resume a normal working life. Although in its early stages, the idea could form part of a broader exit strategy from the countrywide lockdown, once the spread of the disease has been brought under control. “We have a stream of work underway on immunity,” the health secretary, Matthew Hancock, told the BBC on Friday. “We are potentially having immunity certificates so that if people have been through it and when the science is clear about the point at which they are then immune, people can then start getting back to normal.” The scale of any initiative is likely to depend on the government’s success in rolling out antibody tests that show whether people who experienced light symptoms — or none at all — are likely to be immune from the illness. The government says that it is working to ensure that such tests are sufficiently accurate, but that not all are performing to required standards of reliability. Officials announced on Friday that 3,605 people in Britain had died, up 684 from the previous day. Justice delayed: The Supreme Court has postponed the last two weeks of arguments of its term. The Supreme Court announced on Friday that it would postpone the last two weeks of arguments of the term “in keeping with public health guidance.” The arguments, which had been scheduled to start on April 20, may be rescheduled before the term ends, typically in late June, if circumstances permit, the court said. The most urgent of the cases that would have been argued in April was one on whether members of the Electoral College must vote as they had promised to do. Lawyers on both sides had urged the court to decide the question before the presidential election. The court had already postponed the two weeks of arguments that had been scheduled to start on March 23. They included cases on whether Mr. Trump’s accounting firm and bankers must disclose his financial records. “All of the justices are healthy,” Kathleen Arberg, a Supreme Court spokeswoman, said in a statement on Friday. She added that the justices conducted their usual private conference on Friday by telephone. In keeping with its recent practice, the court will issue decisions on its website on Monday, but the justices will not take the bench to announce them. “The court will continue to proceed with the resolution of all cases argued this term,” Friday’s announcement said. “The court will consider a range of scheduling options and other alternatives if arguments cannot be held in the courtroom before the end of the term,” the announcement said. “The court building remains open for official business, but most court personnel are teleworking. The court remains closed to the public until further notice.” Watch a video that takes a look at Trump’s changing coronavirus message. When Mr. Trump was asked about a potential pandemic in January, he said confidently: “We have it totally under control.” By March he was saying: “I’ve always known this was a pandemic. I’ve felt it was a pandemic long before it was called a pandemic.” Video transcript Back bars 0:00/2:51 -2:51 transcript Is It Like the Flu? Is It a Major Threat? Trump’s Changing Coronavirus Message After initially downplaying the potential severity of the coronavirus pandemic and sharing false and misleading information, President Trump has changed his position on key aspects of the crisis. Here are five examples. “Have you been briefed by the C.D.C.?” “I have.” “Are there worries about a pandemic at this point?” “No, we’re not at all, and we have it totally under control. It’s one person coming in from China, and we have it under control. It’s going to be just fine. I’ve always known this is a real — this is a pandemic. I felt it was a pandemic long before it was called a pandemic. Now the Democrats are politicizing the coronavirus. We did one of the great jobs. You say, ‘How’s President Trump doing?’ They go, ‘Oh, not good, not good.’ They have no clue. They don’t have any clue. And this is their new hoax. I’ve always viewed it as very serious. There was no difference yesterday from days before. I feel the tone is similar, but some people said it wasn’t. We’re — what do you have, a very small number of people in the country right now with it? It’s like around 12. Many of them are getting better. Some are fully recovered already. So we’re in very good shape. We’re going to be pretty soon at only five people. And we could be at just one or two people over the next short period of time. So you’re talking about 2.2 million deaths — 2.2 million people from this. And so if we could hold that down, as we’re saying, to 100,000 — it’s a horrible number, maybe even less, but to 100,000, so we have between 100,000 and 200,000. We all together have done a very good job. The flu in our country kills from 25,000 people to 69,000 people a year. That was shocking to me. But that’s a little bit like the flu. It’s a little like the regular flu that we have flu shots for. And we’ll essentially have a flu shot for this in a fairly quick manner. View this the same as the flu. This is not the flu. It’s vicious. It is so contagious. Flu has never been like that, and there is — flu is contagious, but nothing like we’ve ever seen here. Anybody that wants a test can get a test. That’s what — the bottom line. Anybody right now and yesterday, anybody that needs a test gets a test. They’re there. They have the tests. And the tests are beautiful. And in some cases, they’re in California where we have too many. And then in other cases, the distribution could be a little bit better for certain areas, but we’ve done a good job on testing.” After initially downplaying the potential severity of the coronavirus pandemic and sharing false and misleading information, President Trump has changed his position on key aspects of the crisis. Here are five examples.CreditCredit...Doug Mills/The New York Times Data shows an income gap in limiting movement. In cities across America, many lower-income workers continue to move around, while those who make more money are staying home and limiting their exposure to the coronavirus, according to smartphone location data analyzed by The New York Times. Although people in all income groups are moving less than they did before the crisis, wealthier people are staying home the most, especially during the workweek. Not only that, but in nearly every state, they began doing so days before the poor, giving them a head start on social distancing as the virus spread, according to aggregated data from the location analysis company Cuebiq, which tracks about 15 million cellphone users nationwide daily. Location Data Says It All: Staying at Home During Coronavirus Is a Luxury As the virus continues to spread throughout the nation, an analysis of cellphone data shows that those in the wealthiest areas have been able to reduce their movements more than those in the poorest areas. Germany’s response keeps death toll low, and Merkel’s approval rating soars. Germany has been held up as a model across Europe as its laboratories work around the clock to process coronavirus tests, a key measure that has resulted in its relatively low number of casualties. The widespread testing and other measures intended to slow the spread of the virus have not stopped it outright, however. The country’s death count passed 1,000 on Friday. With 80,000 detected cases, the death rate is 1.2 percent, compared to more than 8 percent in Italy. Chancellor Angela Merkel returned to her office on Friday, ending 14 days in quarantine after a doctor who administered a vaccine to her tested positive. The chancellor has seen her approval ratings jump over her government’s handling of the crisis. As Ms. Merkel heads into what is supposed to be her final year in office, a survey commissioned by public broadcaster ARD showed 72 percent of Germans believed that her government was handling the crisis well and that the measures taken to stem the spread of the illness have been appropriate. The approach has included issuing billions of euros in financial aid to individuals and businesses. But it also included closing the borders, leaving tens of thousands of seasonal farm workers unable to enter the county as the spring planting season begins. To ensure the food supply and fill the labor gap, the government said it would recruit as many as 80,000 workers in East European countries by the end of May. All applicants will have to pass a medical test, then be flown directly from their home countries. Once in Germany, their movements will be restricted to their places of work. Correction: An earlier version of this item misstated the death rate in Germany. It is 1.2 percent, not 0.23 percent. Calls to turn presidential palaces into quarantine centers lead Egypt to change course. The outbreak touched a raw political nerve this week for Egypt’s autocratic leader, President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, when Egyptians used social media to call for his lavish palaces to be turned into quarantine centers. The hashtag #Sisispalacesforquarantine was trending on Twitter after the government directed all Egyptians returning from abroad to undergo a 14-day quarantine at their own expense at a luxury hotel near Cairo’s main airport. The World Health Organization has sounded the alarm about a spike in cases across the Middle East and called on governments and citizens to do more to stop its spread. In a statement released on Thursday, Dr. Ahmed Al-Mandhari, the W.H.O.’s regional director for the eastern Mediterranean, said the number of cases of Covid-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus, had risen to more than 58,000 from more than 32,000, in the week ending on April 2. He urged countries in the region to “be more aggressive” in testing suspected cases, tracing how the infection may have spread, isolating confirmed cases and protecting health workers, while insisting that citizens stay home and practice rigorous hygiene. In Egypt, the call to use Mr. el-Sisi’s residences instead was initiated by a Turkey-based television station linked to the outlawed Muslim Brotherhood. But it was quickly taken up by other Egyptians who contrasted the order with conditions at the palaces, echoing a theme that became the focus of rare antigovernment demonstrations in September. Mr. el-Sisi responded to the outcry over the quarantine instructions by announcing that a government fund would cover the cost of the 14-day hotel stays. But the coronavirus threatens to upend his plans in other ways. On March 22 and 23, the army announced that two senior generals with its Engineering Authority, which oversees major construction projects, had died from the virus. This week, Arab Contractors, one of Egypt’s largest construction companies, dismissed opposition claims that work on the new capital had stopped because of infections among workers. Prime Minister Mostafa Madbouly on Wednesday urged the construction projects to continue “at full capacity,” while taking precautions to protect the health of workers. W.H.O. sounds alarm on uncontrolled spread in the Middle East. The World Health Organization has sounded the alarm about a spike in coronavirus cases across the Middle East and called on governments and citizens to do more to stop its spread. In a statement released on Thursday, Dr. Ahmed Al-Mandhari, the W.H.O.’s regional director for the eastern Mediterranean, said the number of cases of Covid-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus, had risen to more than 58,000 from more than 32,000, in the week ending on April 2. He urged countries in the region to “be more aggressive” in testing suspected cases, tracing how the infection may have spread, isolating confirmed cases and protecting health workers, while insisting that citizens stay home and practice rigorous hygiene. But he acknowledged the difficulty of taking such measures in a region that encompasses 22 countries, including much of the Arab world, Iran, Pakistan and Afghanistan. Many of these countries have suffered through years of conflicts that have damaged their health systems, ravaged their economies and displaced millions of people. Public health experts are particularly worried about the threat the coronavirus poses to the refugees, many of whom live in crowded and unsanitary conditions where infection could spread easily. New York’s Bronx Zoo is closed, but staff members still care for roughly 6,000 animals. If a sea lion claps at the Bronx Zoo, and no one is around to hear it, does it make a sound? There is plenty of time to ponder koans these days at the animal park, where the coronavirus pandemic has left the sea lions, and the rest of its roughly 6,000 creatures, without an audience. In this busy season at the zoo, when people typically pack in — children atop their parents’ shoulders — to see the sea lions eat, there is no one standing at the pool railing. Or walking the pathways of Astor Court, with its Beaux-Arts buildings. Or sitting at the picnic tables. Or riding Wild Asia, the seasonal monorail that tours the habitats of red pandas, elephants and rhinos. Still, the life of the zoo goes on, as the sea lions perform their routines, no doubt encouraged by the fish they swallow in a single gulp. “The animals are blissfully unaware of what the rest of us have been going through,” said Jim Breheny, the director of the Bronx Zoo. “What I wouldn’t give for that innocence.” Unlike Broadway theaters or museums, zoos cannot go dark. Chinchillas need checkups. Penguin chicks might require help after they hatch. Captive tigers, alligators and grizzly bears probably shouldn’t be left to their own devices. “The animals that we care for rely on us for everything,” said Mr. Breheny, whose first job at age 14 was staffing the zoo’s camel rides. So since it closed to the public on March 16, the Bronx Zoo has been tending to animals while keeping its human employees as socially distant as possible. Roughly 300 workers of its 700-plus staff were deemed “essential” to care for animals and maintain the zoo’s operations. They are split in half into two teams, which report on alternating weeks. Reporting was contributed by Michael Cooper, Michael Crowley, Reed Abelson, Margot Sanger-Katz, Ron DePasquale, Alan Blinder, Andrew Higgins, Michael D. Shear, Ana Swanson, Amy Qin, Cao Li, Melissa Eddy, Jonah Engel Bromwich, Sheila Kaplan, Emily Cochrane, Maggie Haberman, Manny Fernandez, Adam Liptak, Raphael Minder, Ben Hubbard, Declan Walsh, Christina Anderson, Joanna Berendt, Nada Rashwan, Helene Cooper, Jim Dwyer, Neil MacFarquhar, Eric Shcmitt, Jennifer Valentino-DeVries, Denise Lu, Gabriel J.X. Dance, Marc Santora, Megan Specia, Kenneth Chang, Vindu Goel, Richard Pérez-Peña, Peter Eavis, Alan Feuer, Niraj Chokshi, David Gelles, Michael Corkery, Julia Jacobs and Maya Salam. The Coronavirus Outbreak Frequently Asked Questions and Advice Updated April 11, 2020 When will this end? This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days. How can I help? The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.) What should I do if I feel sick? If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. Should I wear a mask? The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. How do I get tested? If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. How does coronavirus spread? It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face. Is there a vaccine yet? No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away. What makes this outbreak so different? Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard. What if somebody in my family gets sick? If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently. Should I stock up on groceries? Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home. Can I go to the park? Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea. Should I pull my money from the markets? That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years. What should I do with my 401(k)? Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions