https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/15/us/politics/elizabeth-warren-endorse-biden.html?action=click&module=RelatedLinks&pgtype=Article
Elizabeth Warren Endorses Joe Biden for President - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics|Elizabeth Warren Endorses Joe Biden: ‘When You Disagree, He’ll Listen’ https://nyti.ms/3clfHLL The Coronavirus Outbreak debugid:204 • Latest Updates Maps and Tracker Markets Life at Home How to Help Newsletter AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Elizabeth Warren Endorses Joe Biden: ‘When You Disagree, He’ll Listen’ She became the most high-profile progressive woman in the Democratic Party to expand the former vice president’s appeal among liberal voters. Video transcript Back bars 0:00/1:11 -1:11 transcript Warren Releases Video Endorsing Biden Senator Elizabeth Warren endorsed her one-time rival, former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., for president, praising his decades in public service. Joe Biden has spent nearly his entire life in public service. He knows that a government run with integrity, competence and heart will save lives and save livelihoods. And we can’t afford to let Donald Trump continue to endanger the lives and livelihoods of every American. And that’s why I’m proud to endorse Joe Biden as president of the United States. But when Donald Trump is gone, we will need to do more than heal a nation that has been bitterly divided. We will need to rebuild and transform our country. Among all the other candidates I competed with in the Democratic primary, there’s no one I’ve agreed with 100 percent of the time over the years. But one thing I appreciate about Joe Biden is he will always tell you where he stands. When you disagree he’ll listen, and not just listen, but really hear you and treat you with respect no matter where you’re coming from. And he’s shown throughout this campaign that when you come up with new facts or a good argument he’s not too afraid, or too proud, to be persuaded. Senator Elizabeth Warren endorsed her one-time rival, former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., for president, praising his decades in public service.CreditCredit...Demetrius Freeman for The New York Times By Maggie Astor and Katie Glueck April 15, 2020 Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts endorsed Joseph R. Biden Jr. on Wednesday, becoming the most high-profile progressive woman in the party to try to help the former vice president expand his appeal among liberal voters. Her announcement follows Senator Bernie Sanders’s on Monday and former President Barack Obama’s on Tuesday. Ms. Warren’s support had been a foregone conclusion, but she left the timing of her announcement up to Mr. Biden’s team, according to people familiar with the matter. There was no holdup or demand for concessions, these people said. The process of securing prominent endorsements for Mr. Biden has been underway for some time, people close to the campaign said, but some Democrats said it was important to give Mr. Sanders space to endorse on his own terms, out of respect for his campaign and his supporters, whom Mr. Biden must now win over. Mr. Obama’s endorsement made repeated overtures to Mr. Sanders and his backers. The series of endorsements has been a carefully choreographed show of force, reminiscent of the one-two-three punch of support Mr. Biden received from Pete Buttigieg, Amy Klobuchar and Beto O’Rourke before Super Tuesday. It is also a show of unity designed to quash any narrative of a fractured Democratic Party. Democrats are indeed, for once, in array, which was far from an inevitable outcome after a primary in which the party’s ideological fault lines were bitterly clear. The relatively swift arrival of two liberal challengers, Ms. Warren and Mr. Sanders, into the Biden camp is a striking reminder of the sense of urgency among Democrats to coalesce against Mr. Trump when the public’s attention is so focused on the coronavirus. During the primary campaign, Mr. Biden criticized Ms. Warren as having an “elitist attitude” and repeatedly jabbed at Mr. Sanders for not being a card-carrying Democrat. Ms. Warren and Mr. Sanders were also sharply critical, and still differ with Mr. Biden on many issues — but their endorsement announcements this week were as positive and helpful as one could hope for from ideological opponents. Two swing-state senators, Tammy Baldwin of Wisconsin and Gary Peters of Michigan, also formally backed Mr. Biden on Wednesday, as did Valerie Jarrett, a former senior adviser to Mr. Obama. Latest Updates: Coronavirus Outbreak in the U.S. As the Lakers and others return small business aid, Mnuchin says big companies could face “criminal liability.” Companies want protections against lawsuits by people who claim a business is the source of an infection Under pressure from rank-and-file, House Democratic leaders scrap plans to return to session next week. See more updates Updated 4m ago More live coverage: Global Markets New York In her endorsement video, Ms. Warren said, “In this moment of crisis, it’s more important than ever that the next president restores Americans’ faith in good, effective government.” “Joe Biden has spent nearly his entire life in public service. He knows that a government run with integrity, competence and heart will save lives and save livelihoods. And we can’t afford to let Donald Trump continue to endanger the lives and livelihoods of every American.” Since Ms. Warren ended her own campaign, she and Mr. Biden have spoken multiple times about policy issues, including Mr. Biden’s plan to respond to the coronavirus pandemic. At the staff level, Ms. Warren’s chief campaign strategist, Joe Rospars, and Anita Dunn, a senior adviser to Mr. Biden, have been engaged in talks bridging the two camps. In late March, Mr. Biden endorsed forgiving at least $10,000 in federal student loans and credited Ms. Warren for the proposal. Over the weekend, he said during his podcast that he supported immediately increasing Social Security payments by $200 a month, another proposal that Ms. Warren had championed. “One thing I appreciate about Joe Biden is that he will always tell you where he stands,” Ms. Warren said in her endorsement video. “When you disagree, he’ll listen — not just listen, but really hear you and treat you with respect, no matter where you’re coming from. And he has shown throughout this campaign that when you come up with new facts or a good argument, he’s not too afraid or too proud to be persuaded.” The Biden campaign has broadly signaled a willingness to hire staff from formal rivals as they gear up for the general election matchup with Mr. Trump, and some outreach is already underway, but there have been no promises to hire a specific number of aides, a person familiar with the matter said. While the daily stream of endorsements this week was unmistakably designed to signal party unity, Mr. Biden has also sometimes struggled to drive a consistent message of his own amid the coronavirus outbreak. He has often been overshadowed by Mr. Trump and the governors who are on the front lines of the fight. This week, he was back in the spotlight. “It’s a difficult news environment,” said Jennifer Palmieri, a former senior aide to Hillary Clinton and Mr. Obama. “I think it’s smart to do a dramatic show of force and have everyone go in one week, because it just serves to raise the stakes for Democrats. It raises the stakes for November.” “You sacrifice the longevity of the story line,” Ms. Palmieri added, “but I think you want to have the drama of everyone going in one week rather than the drumbeat.” Anna Greenberg, a Democratic pollster, said she was not worried about disunity. The primary “just didn’t have the vitriol” of 2016, she said, and Democratic voters are overwhelmingly in favor of a singular goal. “They just really want Trump to be gone,” Ms. Greenberg said. But even with the party largely united, and the leaders of its progressive and more moderate factions publicly emphasizing unity, a small but vocal segment of Mr. Sanders’s supporters have dissented. David Sirota, a former aide to Mr. Sanders who has said he plans to vote for Mr. Biden in the general election, responded to Ms. Warren’s endorsement by suggesting that Ms. Warren should have campaigned differently when she was in the race, and that perhaps if she had, she would have done what Mr. Sanders himself did not: beat Mr. Biden. “We have to defeat Donald Trump, and these endorsements are all about that goal, so I don’t begrudge it all,” Mr. Sirota said. “I’ll never understand why Senator Warren went silent and never amplified her longstanding criticism of Biden and his bankruptcy bill in the primary, when she was in a position to defeat the vice president. She might be the nominee had she done that.” Mr. Biden’s campaign is hoping to use this week’s endorsements as a means to pump up his fund-raising, which people involved in the campaign have said has gotten tougher in the last month as the economy has cratered. Notably, both Mr. Obama and Ms. Warren posted a link asking for donations to Mr. Biden, and Mr. Obama quickly signed an email to the Biden campaign list. A weaker fund-raiser than his top rivals in the primary, Mr. Biden now enters the general election at a distinct financial disadvantage. President Trump and the Republican National Committee have been stockpiling cash for three years, and announced on Monday that they had entered April with $240 million cash-on-hand in the president’s re-election committee and other shared party accounts. Mr. Biden will disclose how much cash he entered April with on Monday. Without traditional in-person events, Mr. Biden has had to shift to videoconference fund-raisers with top donors, which some contributors have been slow to embrace. He has a virtual fund-raiser scheduled for later on Wednesday, hosted by Joe Kiani, the chairman of Masimo, a medical device company. Mr. Biden and his team have also turned their attention to the search for a running mate, pointing to mid-April as the time frame for assembling a search committee. “They’ll be announcing it soon, I’m sure,” Representative Cedric Richmond of Louisiana, one of Mr. Biden’s national campaign chairs, said in an interview this week. He said details on the committee could come as soon as “early next week.” The Biden campaign had no additional comment. Mr. Richmond has said he expects to be involved in the search process in some capacity and has advocated for appointing a committee that reflects the diversity of the party. Mr. Biden, who committed to choosing a woman to be his running mate, is expected to consider a number of his former presidential rivals. Ms. Warren and Senators Amy Klobuchar and Kamala Harris are often mentioned, along with Gov. Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan and other Democratic leaders. When Ms. Warren was asked on Wednesday night by the MSNBC host Rachel Maddow if she would agree to be Mr. Biden’s running mate if he approached her, the senator replied simply, “Yes.” Sydney Ember, Shane Goldmacher and Astead W. Herndon contributed reporting. The Coronavirus Outbreak Frequently Asked Questions and Advice Updated April 11, 2020 When will this end? This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days. How can I help? The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.) What should I do if I feel sick? If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. Should I wear a mask? The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. How do I get tested? If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. How does coronavirus spread? It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face. Is there a vaccine yet? No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away. What makes this outbreak so different? Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard. What if somebody in my family gets sick? If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently. Should I stock up on groceries? Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home. Can I go to the park? Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea. Should I pull my money from the markets? That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years. What should I do with my 401(k)? Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions