https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/28/us/politics/coronavirus-trump-congress.html
On Politics: How Available Is Virus Aid, Really? - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics|On Politics: How Available Is Virus Aid, Really? https://nyti.ms/2yMflPY The Coronavirus Outbreak debugid:204 • Latest Updates Maps and Tracker New Symptom List Markets Life at Home Newsletter AdvertisementContinue reading the main story On Politics: How Available Is Virus Aid, Really? By Giovanni Russonello April 28, 2020, 6:55 a.m. ET Good morning and welcome to On Politics, a daily political analysis of the 2020 elections based on reporting by New York Times journalists. Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox every weekday. Image Where things stand With Republicans and Democrats at loggerheads in Washington, state governments may have to wait awhile to see if Congress will send them the new aid package that many governors say they need. But in the meantime, governors say they are having trouble getting access to even the relatively modest $139 billion that Congress allocated to the states last month as part of its $2 trillion CARES Act. At issue are new rules set by the Treasury Department stipulating that states can use this money only to cover costs directly related to coronavirus response. Many governors say they don’t need the cash for that — they need help covering budget shortfalls resulting from lost revenues, which themselves have been caused by the virus. “It is clear the revenue loss is going to be coronavirus related; it is just that the expenditures are not specifically for coronavirus,” said Sherrod Brown of Ohio, who joined 45 other Democratic senators in signing a letter over the weekend urging the Trump administration to loosen restrictions on funding for the states. The Supreme Court issued three rulings on Monday, including an 8-to-1 decision that effectively prevented Republicans in Congress from undermining a key part of the Affordable Care Act. The court ruled that Congress must make good on the law’s promise to reimburse insurers who sustained losses because of their participation in the health care exchanges set up under the 2010 legislation. In a separate case, the justices took a pass on issuing what would have been their first decision in over a decade on the scope of the Second Amendment. They decided that the case, which pertained to a gun control measure in New York City, was moot because the city had already repealed the law in question. In a third case, with seemingly esoteric but nevertheless far-reaching implications, the court ruled that Georgia could not copyright its entire legal code, which includes state laws and the official annotations explaining them. “If everything short of statutes and opinions were copyrightable, then states would be free to offer a whole range of premium legal works for those who can afford the extra benefit,” Chief Justice John Roberts wrote for the majority. “With today’s digital tools, states might even launch a subscription or pay-per-law service.” About 20 other states have similarly sought to copyright parts of their code and will now be forced to change course. Nancy Pelosi’s endorsement on Monday of Joe Biden for president came as a surprise to absolutely no one. But the language that the House speaker used may offer some clues as to how Biden plans to position himself as he pivots toward a general-election campaign upended by the pandemic. Biden has been conspicuously absent from the public eye of late, but those around him say he has been keenly focused on preparing to take charge of a country in crisis, should he win November’s election. In her remarks, Pelosi sought to portray Biden’s lack of visibility as a positive, arguing that he has been hard at work preparing for the office he hopes to assume. “As we face coronavirus, Joe has been a voice of reason and resilience, with a clear path to lead us out of this crisis,” she said. “I want to tell you about the Joe Biden I’ve seen working behind the scenes, hammering out solutions for the American people — a leader with the humility to seek expertise in science and the competence to act upon it,” she said, drawing an implicit contrast between Biden and President Trump. Photo of the day President Trump appeared at a news conference in the Rose Garden of the White House on Monday. Here’s why Bernie Sanders denounced the cancellation of New York’s primary. By Nick Corasaniti Bernie Sanders’s suspended presidential campaign issued a scorching statement on Monday depicting the decision by the New York Board of Elections to cancel the state’s presidential primary election as nothing short of disenfranchisement. Though he officially ended his campaign this month, Sanders has indicated that he wants every remaining primary to still be held, and for his supporters to still vote for him. Latest Updates: Coronavirus Outbreak in the U.S. Trump would like schools to reopen before the summer. Few states seem to be considering it. The U.S. surpasses 1 million known coronavirus cases. A mask for thee, but not for me: Pence declines a face covering at the Mayo Clinic. See more updates Updated 7m ago More live coverage: Global Markets New York His reasoning? For one, he wants to accrue more delegates before the Democratic National Convention, so he can use them as leverage in policy discussions with Biden. But Sanders and his legion of loyalists also share another fear: The Vermont senator is a uniquely galvanizing force in progressive politics, and having his name atop the ticket was expected to turn out many liberal voters for New York’s June 23 election who otherwise might not come out to vote. That, in turn, could help put wind in the sails of progressive candidates in down-ballot races. The New York elections board did not call off the state and local elections that will be held on June 23 — only the presidential primary. One of the progressive candidates worried that New York voters have lost one of their greatest motivators is Jamaal Bowman, a middle school principal in the Bronx who is challenging Representative Eliot Engel in the 16th Congressional District. “I’m worried that this could depress turnout among younger voters in my primary challenge,” Bowman said in a statement. “This is terrible for our democracy and our party. My heart goes out to all the organizers who were part of the Bernie campaign and movement.” On Politics is also available as a newsletter. Sign up here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com. The Coronavirus Outbreak Frequently Asked Questions and Advice Updated April 11, 2020 When will this end? This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days. How can I help? The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.) What should I do if I feel sick? If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. Should I wear a mask? The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. How do I get tested? If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. How does coronavirus spread? It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face. Is there a vaccine yet? No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away. What makes this outbreak so different? Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard. What if somebody in my family gets sick? If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently. Should I stock up on groceries? Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home. Can I go to the park? Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea. Should I pull my money from the markets? That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years. What should I do with my 401(k)? Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions