https://www.nytimes.com/by/annie-daniel
Annie Daniel - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Today’s Paper AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Annie Daniel Recent and archived work by Annie Daniel for The New York Times AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Latest Search Search Clear this text input Trump Administration Presses Cities to Evict Homeowners From Flood Zones The Trump administration is starting to insist that towns use eminent domain laws to force homeowners off flood-prone land. Notices are already going out. By Christopher Flavelle Super Tuesday: Live Primary Election Results Get the latest primary election results from California, Texas and 12 other states on March 3. Donald Trump Jr., Debut Author, Sees Sales Bolstered by G.O.P. Allies Orders from the Republican Party and other conservative groups helped push Mr. Trump’s best-selling book, records show. By Nicholas Confessore and Alexandra Alter With Medical Bills Skyrocketing, More Hospitals Are Suing for Payment As deductibles and co-pays grow, insured patients owe a larger share of their medical bills. More and more are being taken to court. By Sarah Kliff How Democrats and Republicans Voted on Trump Impeachment Rules See how each representative voted on the resolution to guide the impeachment inquiry into President Donald J. Trump. By Weiyi Cai, Annie Daniel, Jasmine C. Lee, Denise Lu, Blacki Migliozzi, Alicia Parlapiano and Jugal K. Patel Which Democrats Are Leading the 2020 Presidential Race? There are two Democrats running for president. Here’s the latest data to track how the candidates are doing. By Jasmine C. Lee, Annie Daniel, Rebecca Lieberman, Blacki Migliozzi, Alexander Burns and Sarah Almukhtar How Every Senator Voted on Ending Trump’s National Emergency Twelve Republicans joined Democrats to block Trump’s emergency declaration. By Annie Daniel and Jasmine C. Lee How the House Voted on the Anti-Semitism and Bigotry Resolution See how each representative voted. By Annie Daniel How Every Senator Voted on the Shutdown and Border Bill The Senate is expected to vote on a border bill to prevent a government shutdown. By Annie Daniel and Jasmine C. Lee How Every Senator Voted on Barr’s Confirmation as Attorney General The Senate voted 54-45 to confirm William P. Barr as attorney general. By Annie Daniel and Jasmine C. Lee Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions