https://www.nytimes.com/by/rebecca-lieberman
Rebecca Lieberman - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Today’s Paper AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Rebecca Lieberman Recent and archived work by Rebecca Lieberman for The New York Times AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Latest Search Search Clear this text input Super Tuesday: Live Primary Election Results Get the latest primary election results from California, Texas and 12 other states on March 3. New Hampshire 2020 Primary: Live Results Detailed results and maps from the New Hampshire primary election, the second contest of the 2020 presidential election. Iowa Caucus Results 2020 Detailed results and maps from Iowa, the first contest in the 2020 presidential election. Globetrotting Your sneak preview of books coming out in 2020 from around the world. By The New York Times, Gray Beltran, Rebecca Lieberman and Tammy Tarng Which Democrats Are Leading the 2020 Presidential Race? There are two Democrats running for president. Here’s the latest data to track how the candidates are doing. By Jasmine C. Lee, Annie Daniel, Rebecca Lieberman, Blacki Migliozzi, Alexander Burns and Sarah Almukhtar Your Questions About Food and Climate Change, Answered How to shop, cook and eat in a warming world. By Julia Moskin, Brad Plumer, Rebecca Lieberman, Eden Weingart and Nadja Popovich Mapping Florence’s Impact: Rainfall, Power Outages, and Wind Animated maps and satellite images show the effects of the storm. By Sarah Almukhtar, Matthew Bloch, Audrey Carlsen, K.K. Rebecca Lai, Jasmine C. Lee, Rebecca Lieberman, Ash Ngu, Adam Pearce and Jugal K. Patel Maps: Hurricane Florence’s Approach Toward the Carolinas The Category 2 storm approached the North Carolina coast on Thursday, with winds of up to 110 miles an hour. By Sarah Almukhtar, Matthew Bloch, K.K. Rebecca Lai, Rebecca Lieberman and Ash Ngu Love and Pride in Alabama: A Photo Album We spent some time deep in the Bible Belt with L.G.B.T. communities who are fighting for greater visibility and acceptance. By Rebecca Lieberman and Annie Flanagan AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions