https://www.nytimes.com/by/blacki-migliozzi
Blacki Migliozzi - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Today’s Paper Blacki Migliozzi Recent and archived work by Blacki Migliozzi for The New York Times AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Latest Search Search Clear this text input How the World’s Largest Coronavirus Outbreaks Are Growing The world’s hardest-hit countries are trying a variety of measures to stop the spread of the virus. Here’s how they’re doing. By Anjali Singhvi, Allison McCann, Jin Wu and Blacki Migliozzi 13,000 Missing Flights: The Global Consequences of the Coronavirus The disappearance of thousands of flights from China’s skies in recent weeks points to how the coronavirus has hobbled a nation and is posing a threat to the global economy. By Rich Harris, Blacki Migliozzi and Niraj Chokshi Trump Impeachment Results: How Democrats and Republicans Voted See how each senator will vote on whether to convict and remove President Trump from office. By Weiyi Cai, Alicia Parlapiano, Lauren Leatherby, Blacki Migliozzi and Jeremy White How Democrats and Republicans Voted on Witnesses in the Trump Impeachment Trial See how each senator voted on whether to consider new evidence in the impeachment trial of President Trump. By Alicia Parlapiano, Weiyi Cai, Lauren Leatherby, Blacki Migliozzi, Jugal K. Patel, Joe Ward, Jeremy White and Karen Yourish What Are 2020 Democrats Saying to Iowans in Facebook Ads? We analyzed the messaging in Facebook ads that appeared on voters’ screens in Iowa in the days leading up to the caucuses. By Nick Corasaniti and Blacki Migliozzi Here’s Where Australia’s Destructive Wildfires Are Burning Australia's fire season is one of the worst on record. We mapped the flames. By Nadja Popovich, Denise Lu and Blacki Migliozzi U.K. Election Results Map: How Conservatives Won in a Landslide Prime Minister Boris Johnson secured a large majority in Parliament. Here’s how he did it. By Allison McCann, Lauren Leatherby and Blacki Migliozzi See How the World’s Most Polluted Air Compares With Your City’s From the Bay Area to New Delhi, explore air pollution around the world. By Nadja Popovich, Blacki Migliozzi, Karthik Patanjali, Anjali Singhvi and Jon Huang How Democrats and Republicans Voted on Trump Impeachment Rules See how each representative voted on the resolution to guide the impeachment inquiry into President Donald J. Trump. By Weiyi Cai, Annie Daniel, Jasmine C. Lee, Denise Lu, Blacki Migliozzi, Alicia Parlapiano and Jugal K. Patel The Great Flood of 2019: A Complete Picture of a Slow-Motion Disaster A New York Times analysis shows how far this spring’s unprecedented floods spread. By Sarah Almukhtar, Blacki Migliozzi, John Schwartz and Josh Williams Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions