https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/bernie-sanders.html
Bernie Sanders: Who He Is and What He Stands For - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Elections Today’s Paper Elections|Bernie Sanders: Who He Is and What He Stands For https://nyti.ms/2LIJy5e Advertisement Bernie Sanders: Who He Is and What He Stands For By Sydney EmberUpdated Apr 27, 2020 2020 Candidates Bernie Sanders The independent senator from Vermont is reprising his 2016 campaign, championing economic equality. Bernie Sanders dropped out of the presidential race on April 8, 2020. This page is no longer being updated. National Polling Average 34% Individual Contributions $121.0m News Coverage Ranking #2 Compare all the Democratic candidates » Who is Bernie Sanders? 78 years old Born in Brooklyn; lives in Burlington, Vt., and Washington Former mayor of Burlington; elected to the House of Representatives in 1990; elected to the Senate in 2006 Runner-up to Hillary Clinton in the 2016 Democratic presidential primary Sanders’s signature issues With an anti-establishment style that has changed little over five decades, Mr. Sanders has attracted a loyal cadre of fans. He often boasts, correctly, that some of his agenda items once considered radical — “Medicare for all,” a $15 minimum wage, tuition-free public college — have now been embraced by many Democrats. Running for president a second time, he is one of the most-well known candidates in the race. But he remains something of an outsider: A self-described democratic socialist, he has never joined the party he hopes to lead. Three questions about Bernie Sanders 1. Sanders calls himself a democratic socialist. What does that mean? Democratic socialism has become a powerful force in American political life, but its definition is up for debate. Generally, it falls somewhere between communism and social democracy, which is common in Europe. Strictly speaking, democratic socialists do not support capitalism, meaning they want workers to control the means of production. Unlike communists, democratic socialists also believe that socialism should be achieved democratically. 2. What is Sanders’s plan for student loan debt? Mr. Sanders has long called for eliminating tuition at public colleges and universities. And in June, two months after one of his rivals, Senator Elizabeth Warren, proposed canceling most student loan debt, Mr. Sanders went even further, helping to introduce legislation to eliminate all of the country’s student debt. Mr. Sanders earned plaudits for his plan from his supporters, as well as from some in the education field. But other analysts were skeptical about its feasibility. 3. He seems to really dislike millionaires. But how much does he make? According to 10 years of tax returns that he released in April, Mr. Sanders and his wife, Jane O’Meara Sanders, reported income that topped $1 million in 2016 and 2017, in part from proceeds from his books. His income puts him within the top 1 percent of taxpayers, creating some political awkwardness for the senator, who often speaks against “millionaires and billionaires.” “The only way we will win this election and create a government and economy that work for all is with a grassroots movement — the likes of which has never been seen in American history.” Bernie Sanders Video profile of Bernie Sanders Feb. 19, 2019 Learn more about Sanders We asked 21 candidates the same 18 questions. Hear Bernie Sanders’s answers. How similar are Mr. Sanders and Elizabeth Warren? Here’s a breakdown. Among Mr. Sanders’s other policies: Medicare for All and a $1.7 trillion climate plan. Mr. Sanders was hospitalized after a heart attack in October. Now he eats a lot of salads. Here’s why Mr. Sanders is tough to beat: He commands loyalty in a way few politicians can. Latest coverage New York Board of Elections Cancels Democratic Presidential Primary April 27, 2020 Vote for Biden? Sanders Supporters Say It’s ‘Up in the Air’ April 18, 2020 Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez on Progressivism and the Pandemic April 17, 2020 The Democratic Establishment Suddenly Loves Bernie Sanders April 16, 2020 Advertisement Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions