https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/tulsi-gabbard.html
Tulsi Gabbard: Who She Is and What She Stands For - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Elections Today’s Paper Elections|Tulsi Gabbard: Who She Is and What She Stands For https://nyti.ms/2o4w6Af Advertisement Tulsi Gabbard: Who She Is and What She Stands For By Matt StevensUpdated Mar 19, 2020 2020 Candidates Tulsi Gabbard The representative from Hawaii and service member wants the United States to stay out of foreign wars. Tulsi Gabbard dropped out of the presidential race on March 19, 2020. This page is no longer being updated. National Polling Average < 1% Individual Contributions $11.1m News Coverage Ranking #3 Compare all the Democratic candidates » Who is Tulsi Gabbard? 38 years old Born in American Samoa; lives in Kailua, Hawaii, and Washington Four-term congresswoman representing Hawaii’s Second District, first elected in 2012 Gabbard’s signature issues Ms. Gabbard was deployed to Iraq and currently serves as a major in the Hawaii Army National Guard. She has leaned on her background as a service member in making foreign policy her chief concern. Specifically, she is urging the United States to get out of foreign wars and focus on peacebuilding. She has also warned that a nuclear arms race could be on the horizon. Three questions about Tulsi Gabbard 1. Where does Ms. Gabbard stand on foreign policy? Ms. Gabbard doesn’t fit neatly into any one established ideology or school of thought. She generally does not endorse meddling with dictators; she thinks the threat from Russia is severely exaggerated; she wants to stop beating the drums of war with Iran; and she would prefer to make nice with North Korea. “We should be coming to other leaders in other countries with respect, building a relationship based on cooperation rather than with, you know, a police baton,” she told The New York Times. 2. Wasn’t she the one who met with Bashar al-Assad? Ms. Gabbard visited Syria’s president, Bashar al-Assad, in Damascus in January 2017 — something other American officials had not done since reports emerged of Mr. Assad’s use of chemical weapons against civilians. She defended the move as a way to help broker peace. She also voted against a House resolution condemning the dictator’s war crimes, and more recently, she said Mr. Assad was “not the enemy of the United States.” Critics have called her actions un-American. After Ms. Gabbard sharply criticized Senator Kamala Harris for her prosecutorial record during one of the Democratic debates, Ms. Harris called Ms. Gabbard an “apologist for an individual, Assad, who has murdered the people of his country like cockroaches.” 3. How did she vote on impeachment? She broke with most Democrats and voted “present” on the two articles of impeachment charging President Trump with abuse of power and obstruction of Congress. She was the only member of the House to cast such a vote. “I will end this insanity, because it doesn’t have to be this way. I will end these wasteful regime-change wars.” Tulsi Gabbard Learn more about Gabbard We asked 21 candidates the same 18 questions. Hear Tulsi Gabbard’s answers. Ms. Gabbard wants America to leave the rest of the world alone — that’s why she’s running for president. As Ms. Gabbard injects a bit of chaos into the race, some members of her own party are wondering what she’s up to. Ms. Gabbard sued Google after the first Democratic debate. Latest coverage Tulsi Gabbard Drops Out of Presidential Race March 19, 2020 D.N.C. All but Confirms Next Debate Will Include Just Biden and Sanders March 6, 2020 Tulsi Gabbard’s $50 Million Suit Against Google Is Dismissed March 4, 2020 Competing for Sanders’s New Hampshire Voters: Yang and Gabbard January 9, 2020 Explore the other candidates Joe Biden » Tulsi Gabbard » Bernie Sanders » Produced by Tanner Curtis, Shannon Lin and Rebecca Lieberman. Advertisement Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions