https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/elizabeth-warren.html
Elizabeth Warren: Who She Is and What She Stands For - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Elections Today’s Paper Elections|Elizabeth Warren: Who She Is and What She Stands For https://nyti.ms/2NVKwhk Advertisement Elizabeth Warren: Who She Is and What She Stands For By Thomas KaplanUpdated Mar 19, 2020 2020 Candidates Elizabeth Warren A senator and former law professor wants to change the rules of the economy. Elizabeth Warren dropped out of the presidential race on March 5, 2020. This page is no longer being updated. Who is Elizabeth Warren? 70 years old Born in Oklahoma City; lives in Cambridge, Mass., and Washington Former law professor; elected to the Senate in 2012 An expert in bankruptcy law who helped set up the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau during the Obama administration Warren’s signature issues Senator Elizabeth Warren is running for president promising to bring about “big, structural change,” with the goal of tilting power toward working people and away from big corporations and the rich. She has become known in the Democratic field for her long list of policy plans, including creating a wealth tax, canceling student loan debt for most borrowers and breaking up big technology companies. She is also a proponent of “Medicare for all,” and has rolled out proposals to transition to and pay for such a system. She has stood out from many of her opponents by swearing off fund-raisers with wealthy donors, and she spends hours taking pictures with voters who wait in a “selfie line” at the end of her town halls. Three questions about Elizabeth Warren 1. She has lots of big plans. How would she pay for them? Ms. Warren has laid out numerous revenue sources for her various plans, but her marquee proposal is to create a wealth tax that would apply to the super rich. She would impose a 2 percent annual tax on a household’s net worth between $50 million and $1 billion, and a 6 percent tax on net worth above $1 billion. Ms. Warren says the revenue from that tax — estimated at $3.5 trillion over a decade — would cover the cost of her plans for universal child care, K-12 education, free public college and student debt cancellation. It would also help pay for Medicare for all. 2. Has she always been a Democrat? No. Ms. Warren was registered as a Republican until 1996, when she was in her 40s. Ms. Warren has said that her switch amounted to going from “not political” to “political.” 3. What about the controversy over her ancestry? Ms. Warren has faced scrutiny over her claims of Native American ancestry since she ran for Senate in 2012, and President Trump has repeatedly used a slur to mock her over the subject. Ms. Warren has said that she never used her ancestry claims to advance her career. Before entering the presidential race, she released the results of a DNA test that provided evidence that she had a Native American ancestor. But the DNA test angered some Native Americans, and she has since apologized for the DNA test and for identifying herself as Native American during her career as a law professor. “When government works only for the wealthy and the well-connected, that is corruption, plain and simple, and we need to call it out.” Elizabeth Warren Video profile of Elizabeth Warren June 10, 2019 Learn more about Warren We asked 21 candidates the same 18 questions. Hear Elizabeth Warren’s answers. Ms. Warren has lots of plans. Together, they would remake the economy. Many Democrats love Ms. Warren. They also worry about her. Ms. Warren’s path to presidential contender began in Texas bankruptcy courts. Latest coverage Progressive Ideas Remain Popular. Progressive Presidential Candidates Are Losing. Why? March 18, 2020 What a ‘Wartime’ Economy Looks Like March 18, 2020 Behind Joe Biden’s Thinking on a Female Running Mate March 16, 2020 Public School Is a Child’s Right. Should Preschool Be Also? March 15, 2020 Explore the other candidates Joe Biden » Tulsi Gabbard » Bernie Sanders » Advertisement Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions