https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/pete-buttigieg.html
Pete Buttigieg: Who He Is and What He Stands For - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Elections Today’s Paper Elections|Pete Buttigieg: Who He Is and What He Stands For https://nyti.ms/2NUIIFi Advertisement Pete Buttigieg: Who He Is and What He Stands For By Reid J. EpsteinUpdated Mar 19, 2020 2020 Candidates Pete Buttigieg A Midwestern former mayor who is calling for generational change in the White House. Pete Buttigieg dropped out of the presidential race on March 1, 2020. This page is no longer being updated. Who is Pete Buttigieg? 38 years old Born in South Bend, Ind.; lives in his hometown Former two-term mayor of South Bend; did not run for re-election in 2019 and left office on Jan. 1, 2020 Former intelligence officer in the Navy Reserve; former consultant for McKinsey & Company; former Rhodes scholar Buttigieg’s signature issues Pete Buttigieg has built his campaign around the idea of generational change. The youngest candidate in the presidential field, he says he would be a bridge to a new era of American politics. Mr. Buttigieg was the first candidate to push the idea of increasing the number of seats on the Supreme Court. And he has proven to be one of the most formidable fund-raisers in the race. Three questions about Pete Buttigieg 1. Where did Pete Buttigieg come from? Until launching his presidential campaign in January 2019, Mr. Buttigieg was a relatively obscure mayor of an Indiana city of just over 100,000 people. Educated at Harvard and then Oxford on a Rhodes Scholarship, he served as an intelligence officer in the Navy Reserve and worked as a McKinsey consultant. Mr. Buttigieg’s first entry into national politics came in early 2017, when he ran unsuccessfully for the chairmanship of the Democratic National Committee. 2. How would Mr. Buttigieg change the makeup of the Supreme Court? Mr. Buttigieg has proposed or endorsed a handful of options for altering how justices are seated. Changing the system, he says, could make each new court appointment less of a political death match between Republicans and Democrats. One plan Mr. Buttigieg has floated would establish a Supreme Court of 10 permanent justices, with five others rotating in who could be seated only by unanimous consent of the first 10. He’s also considered having appellate court judges serve rotating one-year terms on the court. 3. How is Mr. Buttigieg different from the other candidates? He’s the youngest candidate running, he’s the first openly gay candidate to mount a major campaign for the presidency, and he’s aiming to be the first mayor to go directly from city hall to the White House. In 2018 he married Chasten Glezman, a schoolteacher from Michigan. Chasten Buttigieg has since become a prolific fund-raiser in his own right, stumping for his husband at events across the country. “I’m definitely the only left-handed Maltese-American-Episcopalian-gay-millennial-war veteran in the race, but I think profile is just what gets you that first look.” Pete Buttigieg Video profile of Pete Buttigieg April 14, 2019 Learn more about Buttigieg We asked 21 candidates the same 18 questions. Hear Pete Buttigieg’s answers. Here’s our story about Mr. Buttigieg’s struggle to come out of the closet. Read about Mr. Buttigieg’s journey from a relative unknown to a first-tier candidate. Mr. Buttigieg has a complicated history with the police and the black community in South Bend. Latest coverage Behind Joe Biden’s Thinking on a Female Running Mate March 16, 2020 The ‘Man Show’ Diaspora March 13, 2020 Pete Buttigieg Hosts ‘Jimmy Kimmel Live’ Without an Audience March 13, 2020 There Won’t Be a Gay President in 2021. So What Does Buttigieg’s Campaign Tell Us? March 7, 2020 Explore the other candidates Joe Biden » Tulsi Gabbard » Bernie Sanders » Advertisement Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions