https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/tom-steyer.html
Tom Steyer: Who He Is and What He Stands For - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Elections Today’s Paper Elections|Tom Steyer: Who He Is and What He Stands For https://nyti.ms/2o1GPvi Advertisement Tom Steyer: Who He Is and What He Stands For By Shane GoldmacherUpdated Mar 19, 2020 2020 Candidates Tom Steyer A billionaire says he can help get money out of politics, decrying what he calls the “corporate stranglehold on democracy.” Tom Steyer dropped out of the presidential race on Feb. 29, 2020. This page is no longer being updated. Who is Tom Steyer? 62 years old Born in New York; lives in San Francisco Started the hedge fund Farallon Capital; funded political groups including Need to Impeach and NextGen America; no prior elected office Steyer’s signature issues Mr. Steyer casts himself as a progressive outsider with a business record, calling for term limits in Congress, decriminalizing illegal border crossings and expanding the Supreme Court. He says his top priorities are breaking the influence of corporations and addressing climate change. Mr. Steyer has spent millions of dollars pushing for the impeachment of President Trump, airing television ads and building a grassroots online network. Now, after considering runs for California governor and senator, he is promising to spend $100 million or more of his own money on a presidential bid. Three questions about Tom Steyer 1. How rich is Tom Steyer? Very rich. Mr. Steyer has released more than a decade of tax returns that show more than $1 billion in earnings, including nearly $110 million in “taxable income” in 2017. He has become one of the largest Democratic financiers in the country, spending more than $300 million on politics between 2014 and 2017. Mr. Steyer founded his investment firm, Farallon Capital, in the 1980s and left in 2012. Some of its past investments could cause political headaches for Mr. Steyer, including those in private prisons and coal. 2. Isn’t he the impeachment guy? Yes, Mr. Steyer founded the group Need to Impeach and has appeared in many television ads asking for Mr. Trump to be impeached. Some ran on Fox News in an effort to get Mr. Trump’s attention. (The president responded on Twitter to one ad, calling Mr. Steyer a “weirdo.”) In January 2019, Mr. Steyer announced he would not run for president to focus on the impeachment efforts. But in July, he reversed himself and declared himself a candidate. 3. Is Mr. Steyer a moderate or a progressive? Mr. Steyer is selling himself as a businessman who can challenge Mr. Trump on economic matters. But he is not casting himself as a moderate. He has embraced a “wealth tax” on the superrich, not unlike one proposed by Senator Elizabeth Warren. He has suggested adding new justices to the Supreme Court, a relatively radical idea pressed by some on the left. He wants to take emergency action to address climate change. In many ways, he is running as a populist outsider, much the way Mr. Trump did in 2016. He is just proposing a different set of solutions. “I think Mr. Trump had a point. I think that’s why he got elected. Because the system is broken.” Tom Steyer Learn more about Steyer We followed Mr. Steyer on his crusade to spend millions to get money out of politics. Here’s a dispatch from an event in San Francisco, when Mr. Steyer said he didn’t see himself as rich. Becoming a presidential candidate was another reinvention for Mr. Steyer. Mr. Steyer’s hedge fund has bankrolled coal mines and coal-fired power plants. Latest coverage Late Night Bids Adieu to Buttigieg, Klobuchar and ‘Poor’ Tom Steyer March 3, 2020 5 Takeaways From the South Carolina Primary March 1, 2020 Tom Steyer Drops Out of 2020 Presidential Race February 29, 2020 How South Carolina Could Change the Democratic Race February 29, 2020 Explore the other candidates Joe Biden » Tulsi Gabbard » Bernie Sanders » Produced by Tanner Curtis, Shannon Lin and Rebecca Lieberman. Advertisement Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions