https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/deval-patrick.html
Deval Patrick: Who He Is and What He Stands For - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Elections Today’s Paper Elections|Deval Patrick: Who He Is and What He Stands For https://nyti.ms/2EOx6Og Advertisement Deval Patrick: Who He Is and What He Stands For By Stephanie SaulUpdated Apr 27, 2020 2020 Candidates Deval Patrick A late arriver to the White House race, the former Massachusetts governor brings a moderate message and a rags-to-riches biography. Deval Patrick dropped out of the presidential race on Feb. 12, 2020. This page is no longer being updated. Who is Deval Patrick? 63 years old Born in Chicago; lives in Massachusetts Until recently, managing director of an investment fund at Bain Capital The first black governor of Massachusetts (2007–2015) Patrick’s signature issues Deval Patrick entered the campaign in November and quickly staked out fairly moderate positions. Unlike his fellow New Englanders, Senators Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren, he opposes “Medicare for all.” He also distanced himself from a wealth tax. During two terms as governor, Mr. Patrick focused on education policies to close the gap separating students of different races and socioeconomic backgrounds; pushed through a $13 billion transportation infrastructure bill; and promoted casino gaming in the state. Three questions about Deval Patrick 1. What’s his appeal? Mr. Patrick’s biography is a classic rags-to-riches story that makes for a compelling stump speech. Raised by a single mother on Chicago’s South Side, he frequently slept on the floor because there were not enough beds. With some lucky breaks — including a scholarship to a prestigious boarding school — he eventually graduated from Harvard Law School. His first public-sector role was assistant attorney general for civil rights under the Clinton administration. 2. What exactly did he do at Bain Capital? After leaving the governor’s office, Mr. Patrick joined the private equity firm Bain Capital in 2015, heading up an investment fund that focuses on socially responsible investments. The fund acquired interests in fitness centers in the Midwest, a vegan fast-food chain and sushi restaurants serving sustainable fish, among other businesses. With private equity under attack by other Democrats, Mr. Patrick could face questions about his Bain connection as well as other business ties, including stints at Texaco and Coca-Cola and board memberships. 3. Why did he get into the campaign so late? Mr. Patrick had considered joining the presidential race earlier, but announced in December 2018 that he had decided against it, citing the “cruelty” of the elections process. At the time, his wife had cancer, but she is now healthy. With some Democrats expressing unease in recent months about the party’s ability to defeat President Trump, Mr. Patrick decided in November to enter the race. While he is regarded as a potentially formidable candidate, his 11th-hour decision puts him at a considerable disadvantage in funding and organization. “Instead of spattering our civic square with mud, instead of fueling extremism and hate with a barrage of tweets and a 24/7 cycle of outrage, how about we try a little old-fashioned love of country?” Deval Patrick Learn more about Patrick Mr. Patrick and Michael R. Bloomberg both entered the race in November. We looked at how they could reshape the Democratic contest. Mr. Patrick was an early supporter of gay marriage, and he explained why in this Washington Post piece. Mr. Patrick’s wife, Diane, is the granddaughter of Brooklyn’s first black elected official, Bertram Baker. NPR did this story on Mr. Patrick’s memoir, “Reason to Believe.” Advertisement Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions