https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/andrew-yang.html
Andrew Yang: Who He Is and What He Stands For - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Elections Today’s Paper Elections|Andrew Yang: Who He Is and What He Stands For https://nyti.ms/2LnQtSg Advertisement Andrew Yang: Who He Is and What He Stands For By Matt StevensUpdated Feb. 11, 2020 2020 Candidates Andrew Yang A former tech executive warns of the perils of automation and wants to provide every American with a “universal basic income.” Andrew Yang dropped out of the presidential race on Feb. 11, 2020. This page is no longer being updated. Who is Andrew Yang? 45 years old Born in Schenectady, N.Y.; lives in Manhattan Former technology executive; founded a nonprofit to create jobs; no prior elected office Yang’s signature issues Mr. Yang says his experience working in Silicon Valley and leading a start-up that sought to create jobs gave him an up-close look at the way automation could affect the economy in the years ahead. His solution? To give every American a “universal basic income” of $1,000 a month. Three questions about Andrew Yang 1. How would his proposed universal basic income actually work? Mr. Yang’s signature campaign proposal is to provide a monthly payment he calls the freedom dividend. Every American 18 and over would qualify — even billionaires. The payments, he argues, would go a long way toward blunting the impact of automation, which Mr. Yang fears will cause mass unemployment. Giving people all that money would come with a huge price tag, and Mr. Yang suggests paying for it, in part, by imposing a value-added tax of 10 percent. 2. Free money sounds nice. Has his campaign gained any traction? Mr. Yang announced his campaign for president in February 2018, long before other candidates. At the time, he truly was a fringe candidate. But after some unconventional campaigning and appearances on the debate stage, Mr. Yang found new fans and his fund-raising efforts took off. Mr. Yang, still a long-shot candidate, now regularly polls in the low single-digits, which is better than many of his competitors who have held elective office. 3. Who are his supporters? Mr. Yang has developed a devoted internet following known as the “Yang Gang.” His fans have plastered Mr. Yang into memes and produced songs and music videos about his candidacy. He has also built one of the most ideologically eclectic coalitions in the field, drawing support from progressives, libertarians, Trump voters and disaffected voters. His crowds tend to skew young and male. “Not left, not right, but forward.” Andrew Yang Video profile of Andrew Yang May 22, 2019 Learn more about Yang We asked 21 candidates the same 18 questions. Hear Andrew Yang’s answers. Mr. Yang is on a quest to “Make America Think Harder.” And he’s gaining a following. Here’s a profile of Mr. Yang from when he entered the race in February 2018. Learn more about Mr. Yang’s internet following and the Yang gang. Latest coverage ‘I Am Suspending My Campaign,’ Yang Says February 11, 2020 Andrew Yang Ends His Presidential Campaign February 11, 2020 New Hampshire Primary: Polls Are Closed and Sanders Leads February 11, 2020 The Field: Iowa’s Aftershocks in New Hampshire February 11, 2020 Explore the other candidates Michael Bennet » Joe Biden » Michael Bloomberg » Pete Buttigieg » John Delaney » Tulsi Gabbard » Amy Klobuchar » Deval Patrick » Bernie Sanders » Tom Steyer » Elizabeth Warren » Andrew Yang » Advertisement Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions