https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/michael-bennet.html
Michael Bennet: Who He Is and What He Stands For - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Elections Today’s Paper Elections|Michael Bennet: Who He Is and What He Stands For https://nyti.ms/2rlG1Ua Advertisement Michael Bennet: Who He Is and What He Stands For By Maggie AstorUpdated Feb. 11, 2020 2020 Candidates Michael Bennet The Colorado senator wants to usher in a new era of trust in government and bipartisan compromise. Michael Bennet dropped out of the presidential race on Feb. 11, 2020. This page is no longer being updated. Who is Michael Bennet? 55 years old Born in New Delhi; lives in Denver Senator from Colorado since 2009 Former superintendent of Denver Public Schools Bennet’s signature issues Mr. Bennet has focused heavily on education, pledging to ensure equal access to high-quality programs by 2028. His plan calls for all students to be able to read by third grade, to be “proficient in math and reading” by eighth grade, and to “graduate high school with the ability to earn a living wage, not just the minimum wage.” He is also known for his work on immigration reform in the Senate. Three questions about Michael Bennet 1. What’s this about his immigration work in the Senate? Back in 2013, Mr. Bennet was part of the so-called Gang of Eight: four Democratic and four Republican senators who negotiated a comprehensive immigration proposal that passed the Senate but not the House. It would have provided a path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants and expanded visa options, while also funding a border fence and a stronger system for companies to verify employees’ immigration status. 2. How does he plan to make education equal in eight years? His plan centers on 500 “regional opportunity compacts,” supported by $10 billion a year for five years, which he says would “connect the dots” between school curriculums and the needs of local employers. He is also calling for universal preschool and free community college, pay raises for teachers, and incentives for school districts to extend the academic day and year. 3. What’s his pitch to voters? Over the summer, Mr. Bennet made a rather unusual promise to voters: “If you elect me president, I promise you won’t have to think about me for two weeks at a time.” That return to stability and “normalcy” is, essentially, his pitch, along with an appeal to electability. Like most of the moderates in the field, he argues that voters are looking for a candidate who is willing to compromise, and that progressive candidates like Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren would lose a general election. “Donald Trump is much more a symptom of our problems than he is the creator of our problems. He is an accelerant. He was sent here to blow this place up. That’s what people in my state who voted for him said. And guess what? They succeeded. But now we’ve got to pick up the pieces.” Michael Bennet Learn more about Bennet We asked 21 candidates the same 18 questions. Hear Michael Bennet’s answers. Here’s an overview of where he stands on the issues. The New York Times Book Review took a look at his campaign memoir. Explore the other candidates Michael Bennet » Joe Biden » Michael Bloomberg » Pete Buttigieg » John Delaney » Tulsi Gabbard » Amy Klobuchar » Deval Patrick » Bernie Sanders » Tom Steyer » Elizabeth Warren » Andrew Yang » Advertisement Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions