https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/john-delaney.html
John Delaney: Who He Is and What He Stands For - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Elections Today’s Paper Elections|John Delaney: Who He Is and What He Stands For https://nyti.ms/2ENodVi Advertisement John Delaney: Who He Is and What He Stands For By Maggie AstorUpdated Feb. 3, 2020 2020 Candidates John Delaney Funding much of his campaign with his own money, Mr. Delaney is running on a platform of bipartisanship and moderation. John Delaney dropped out of the presidential race on Jan. 31, 2020. This page is no longer being updated. Who is John Delaney? 56 years old Born in Wood-Ridge, N.J.; lives in Potomac, Md. Former three-term congressman from Maryland (did not run for re-election in 2018); founded two financial companies Delaney’s signature issues Some key points in his platform include health care (he has a hybrid public-private proposal but opposes “Medicare for all”), national service (he wants to make it mandatory) and infrastructure, but he doesn’t have one defining issue. The hallmark of his campaign is, rather, an appeal to bipartisanship: He has said that in his first 100 days as president, he would focus exclusively on bipartisan legislation. He is more moderate than many other candidates and argues that Democrats will lose in 2020 if they move too far to the left. Three questions about John Delaney 1. Isn’t he the one who’s been running for president forever? Close to it, yeah — he announced his campaign in July 2017 and had hit all 99 counties in Iowa before any of the front-runners even began. We don’t know of any other non-incumbent candidate in modern American history who has started earlier in an election cycle. He did it because, as he put it in 2018: “I think I’m the right person for the job, but not enough people knew who I was or still know who I am. The way to solve that problem, it seems to me, is to get in early and just work harder than everyone else.” 2. He’s criticized “Medicare for all” a lot. What is his health care plan? He wants to keep Medicare for people over 65 and create a new government program for people under 65. Everyone under 65 would automatically be enrolled in that program — which would cover all “essential health benefits,” including pre-existing conditions — but people could choose to forfeit the coverage and receive a credit to buy private insurance instead. He argues that this would guarantee universal coverage without forcing people to use a government health plan. 3. And what’s this about making national service mandatory? Under his plan, all Americans would have to complete at least a year of national service upon turning 18. The definition of national service would be fairly wide, including not only military enlistment and traditional community service programs like AmeriCorps, but also infrastructure apprenticeships and a climate corps. Participants would be paid and earn two years of free tuition at a public college or university, and if they chose to serve longer than the minimum, they would get a third year of free tuition. “I think Democrats win when we run on real solutions, not impossible promises. When we run on things that are workable, not fairy-tale economics.” John Delaney Learn more about Delaney We asked 21 candidates the same 18 questions. Hear John Delaney’s answers. We profiled him in 2018, when he and Andrew Yang were the only candidates in the race. In the second Democratic debate, Mr. Delaney was involved in two viral exchanges: one with Bernie Sanders and one with Elizabeth Warren. Explore the other candidates Michael Bennet » Joe Biden » Michael Bloomberg » Pete Buttigieg » John Delaney » Tulsi Gabbard » Amy Klobuchar » Deval Patrick » Bernie Sanders » Tom Steyer » Elizabeth Warren » Andrew Yang » Advertisement Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions