https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/cory-booker.html
Cory Booker: Who He Is and What He Stands For - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Elections Today’s Paper Elections|Cory Booker: Who He Is and What He Stands For https://nyti.ms/2NUEBsP Advertisement Cory Booker: Who He Is and What He Stands For By Nick CorasanitiUpdated Jan. 13, 2020 2020 Candidates Cory Booker The New Jersey senator is campaigning on the lofty ideals of love, unity and equality. Cory Booker dropped out of the presidential race on Jan. 13, 2020. This page is no longer being updated. National Polling Average 2% Individual Contributions $15.5m News Coverage Ranking #8 Compare all the Democratic candidates » Who is Cory Booker? 50 years old Born in Washington; lives in Newark and Washington Senator from New Jersey; former city councilman and mayor of Newark; former Rhodes scholar Booker’s signature issues In a political climate dominated by divisiveness, Mr. Booker has pitched himself as a healer. Central to his campaign is combating inequality. A champion of the First Step Act, he has called for reversing mass incarceration with a sweeping clemency initiative, expanding affordable housing through tax credits and closing the racial wealth gap with his “baby bonds” proposal. Three questions about Cory Booker 1. So, what are these “baby bonds”? One of the earliest proposals Mr. Booker touted on the campaign trail, the program would give every American child a $1,000 savings account at birth. The government would contribute additional money each year on a tiered basis, depending on family income. The account would be turned over to the child at age 18, but could only be used for education, investing in a business or buying a home. 2. Is he the one who started talking about gun licenses? Yes. Following an early pledge to “bring the fight to the N.R.A. like they’ve never seen before,” Mr. Booker introduced his gun control plan in May, which included a national gun-licensing program he likens to a driver’s license. Mr. Booker often points to his personal experience with gun violence, as a former mayor of Newark and as someone who still lives in a low-income community, on the campaign trail. 3. Is he really dating Rosario Dawson? So, you’ve been doing some Googling? Yes, Mr. Booker, the only bachelor in the Democratic field, has been dating Ms. Dawson since October 2018, and has largely kept their relationship away from politics, though Ms. Dawson did join Mr. Booker for a campaign swing through Nevada over the Fourth of July. “There is no neutrality in this fight. You are either an agent of justice or you are contributing to the problem.” Cory Booker Video profile of Cory Booker Feb. 1, 2019 Learn more about Booker We asked 21 candidates the same 18 questions. Hear Cory Booker’s answers. Mr. Booker’s strategy of physical advocacy: show up, fight, and cameras often follow. Mr. Booker faced a test as mayor of Newark as he struggled to reform the police department. An Oscar-nominated documentary, “Street Fight,” followed Mr. Booker’s failed 2002 bid for mayor. Latest coverage Vetting the 2020 Democratic Presidential Candidates January 13, 2020 Globetrotting January 8, 2020 Hate Negative Political Ads? This Is the Primary for You January 5, 2020 D.N.C. Tells Pollsters to Do More Polls January 3, 2020 Explore the other candidates Michael Bennet » Joe Biden » Michael Bloomberg » Pete Buttigieg » John Delaney » Tulsi Gabbard » Amy Klobuchar » Deval Patrick » Bernie Sanders » Tom Steyer » Elizabeth Warren » Andrew Yang » Correction: Sept. 12, 2019 An earlier version of this article gave the incorrect place of birth for Senator Cory Booker. He was born in Washington, D.C., not Highland Park, N.J. Advertisement Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions