https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/marianne-williamson.html
Marianne Williamson: Who She Is and What She Stands For - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Elections Today’s Paper Elections|Marianne Williamson: Who She Is and What She Stands For https://nyti.ms/2ZsW7YZ Advertisement Marianne Williamson: Who She Is and What She Stands For By Maggie AstorUpdated Jan. 13, 2020 2020 Candidates Marianne Williamson A self-help author and spiritual leader, wants to “harness love for political purposes.” Marianne Williamson dropped out of the presidential race on Jan. 10, 2020. This page is no longer being updated. National Polling Average < 1% Individual Contributions $6.1m News Coverage Ranking #14 Compare all the Democratic candidates » Who is Marianne Williamson? 67 years old Born in Houston; lives in Des Moines Best-selling self-help author and New Age spiritual leader; founded support centers for people with H.I.V. and other serious illnesses; no prior elected office Williamson’s signature issues One of Ms. Williamson’s biggest proposals — unique among all the Democratic candidates — is establishing a Department of Peace, which would oversee efforts ranging from combating white supremacy to finding nonmilitary solutions to foreign conflicts. She is also a vocal supporter of reparations for the American descendants of enslaved Africans. Three questions about Marianne Williamson 1. She talks about “harnessing love for political purposes.” What does that mean? Her proposed Department of Peace would work to combat hate, including white supremacy and misogyny. She also wants the government to profoundly change its priorities, devoting less money to the military and more to peace-building and social programs. But in another sense, she is talking about something more amorphous: In her book “Tears to Triumph,” she suggested that people “join love’s revolution, taking even the tiniest step to contribute energy to the transformational wave of consciousness now rising up among us.” 2. What’s her plan for reparations? She is calling for $200 billion to $500 billion in reparations for slavery, paid out over 20 years. In a standout moment at the second debate in July, she challenged the description of reparations as “financial assistance” as opposed to a repayment of debt. “We need to recognize, when it comes to the economic gap between blacks and whites in America, it does come from a great injustice that has never been dealt with,” she said. “That great injustice has had to do with the fact that there was 250 years of slavery followed by another 100 years of domestic terrorism.” 3. What’s the deal with her views on mental health? She believes that antidepressants are harmfully overprescribed and even suggested at one point that clinical depression was a “scam.” In an interview over the summer, she disavowed the “scam” description, said she understood that antidepressants were sometimes necessary and acknowledged that some of her past comments had lacked nuance. But she stood by her assertion that antidepressants were often wrongly prescribed for “normal human despair,” an argument that mental health professionals say can increase stigma and discourage people from seeking help. “If you think any of this wonkiness is going to deal with this dark psychic force of the collectivized hatred that this president is bringing up in this country, then I’m afraid that the Democrats are going to see some very dark days.” Marianne Williamson Learn more about Williamson We asked 21 candidates the same 18 questions. Hear Marianne Williamson’s answers. We interviewed Ms. Williamson about her past comments on mental illness and antidepressants. The New York Times Magazine profiled her, and so did our Styles section. Read about the mystical text behind her worldview. Explore the other candidates Michael Bennet » Joe Biden » Michael Bloomberg » Cory Booker » Pete Buttigieg » Julián Castro » John Delaney » Tulsi Gabbard » Amy Klobuchar » Deval Patrick » Bernie Sanders » Tom Steyer » Elizabeth Warren » Marianne Williamson » Andrew Yang » Advertisement Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions