https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/julian-castro.html
Julián Castro: Who He Is and What He Stands For - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Elections Today’s Paper Elections|Julián Castro: Who He Is and What He Stands For https://nyti.ms/2NTB8KU Advertisement Julián Castro: Who He Is and What He Stands For By Maggie AstorUpdated Jan. 2, 2020 2020 Candidates Julián Castro Mr. Castro, a former housing secretary, is emphasizing immigration and education in his presidential campaign. Julián Castro dropped out of the presidential race on Jan. 2, 2020. This page is no longer being updated. Who is Julián Castro? 45 years old Born in San Antonio Former mayor of San Antonio; housing secretary under President Barack Obama Castro’s signature issues Mr. Castro has focused his campaign largely on immigration, drawing on his family’s background (his grandmother was an immigrant from Mexico) and his political experience in a border state. His immigration plan was one of the earliest and most detailed in the Democratic field. As mayor of San Antonio, he also created a public pre-K program, something he wants to replicate at the national level. Three questions about Julián Castro 1. What is his immigration plan? Mr. Castro released a sweeping immigration proposal in April, going well beyond what other candidates had put forward at the time. In addition to some things that are a matter of Democratic consensus — like stopping President Trump’s family separation policy and creating a pathway to citizenship for undocumented immigrants — he wants to decriminalize illegal border crossings. 2. Decriminalize border crossings? So people could just walk in? No. Under Mr. Castro’s plan, crossing the border illegally would no longer be a criminal offense, but it would still be a civil offense. This is how the United States handled unauthorized border crossings for decades after Congress made such crossings illegal in 1929. It was not until 2005, under President George W. Bush, that the government began prosecuting these cases in the criminal system. 3. What’s the deal with his pre-K program? One of Mr. Castro’s biggest accomplishments as mayor of San Antonio, an office he held from 2009 to 2014, was a program called Pre-K 4 SA. Funded by a tax increase that San Antonio voters approved, the program provides free prekindergarten for some children and low-cost pre-K for others. Mr. Castro’s education plan proposes a similar program at the national level. “When my grandmother got here almost a hundred years ago, I’m sure that she never could have imagined that just two generations later, one of her grandsons would be serving as a member of the United States Congress and the other would be standing with you here today to say these words: I am a candidate for president of the United States of America.” Julián Castro Video profile of Julián Castro Aug. 18, 2019 Learn more about Castro We asked 21 candidates the same 18 questions. Hear Mr. Castro’s answers. Here’s a profile of Mr. Castro from April, when he was still seeking a defining moment. At the second debate in July, he confronted former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. on immigration. Mr. Castro’s keynote speech at the 2012 Democratic National Convention first catapulted him to fame. Latest coverage Julián Castro Ends Presidential Campaign January 2, 2020 How We Got to 2020: Five Campaigns in Photos December 30, 2019 The D.N.C. Chairman Knows No One Is Happy. Neither Is He. December 15, 2019 Why White Iowans Want a Nominee Who Can Appeal to Nonwhite Voters December 15, 2019 Explore the other candidates Michael Bennet » Joe Biden » Michael Bloomberg » Cory Booker » Pete Buttigieg » Julián Castro » John Delaney » Tulsi Gabbard » Amy Klobuchar » Deval Patrick » Bernie Sanders » Tom Steyer » Elizabeth Warren » Marianne Williamson » Andrew Yang » Advertisement Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions