https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/kamala-harris.html
Kamala Harris: Who She Is and What She Stands For - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Elections Today’s Paper Elections|Kamala Harris: Who She Is and What She Stands For https://nyti.ms/2O0IsVj Advertisement Kamala Harris: Who She Is and What She Stands For By Astead W. HerndonUpdated Dec. 16, 2019 2020 Candidates Kamala Harris The senator and former California attorney general says she can “prosecute the case” against President Trump. Kamala Harris dropped out of the presidential race on Dec. 3, 2019. This page is no longer being updated. Who is Kamala Harris? 55 years old Born in Oakland, Calif.; lives in San Francisco and Washington Elected to the Senate in 2016 Former attorney general of California; former San Francisco district attorney Harris’s signature issues Kamala Harris has pitched herself as a history-making candidate who can appeal to both progressives and moderates. Rather than trying to upend the economy, her policies seek incremental, targeted results, particularly focusing on historically marginalized groups like women, people of color and low-income Americans. At times, Ms. Harris has created confusion by oscillating between policy positions. Still, her sharp debate skills and affable personality have made her a top-tier contender, just a short time into her first term in the Senate. Three questions about Kamala Harris 1. What’s Ms. Harris’s position on health care? She’s held several of them. Originally, she was a sponsor of the Medicare for All bill offered by Senator Bernie Sanders, which would create a single-payer system and eliminate private health insurance. But she seemed to change her position frequently on elements of Medicare for All until she released her own proposal in July. Unlike the Sanders bill, her plan would maintain a limited role for private insurers and seek to pay for costs without raising taxes on the middle class. 2. Is Ms. Harris a progressive? She has described herself as a “progressive prosecutor” during her time as a district attorney and attorney general in California. While she pushed leftward on issues like gay marriage and the death penalty, she sometimes enraged liberals by refusing to go further. In the presidential race, Ms. Harris has styled herself as a pragmatic problem solver. In many ways, she's indicative of how Democrats have broadly moved to the left, even if she remains more moderate than the most vocal progressive firebrands. 3. How does Ms. Harris talk about her identity? Ms. Harris is of Jamaican and Indian descent, and she is the most viable candidate who is a black or Indian woman to run for president. She attended a historically black college (Howard University), is a member of a prominent black sorority (Alpha Kappa Alpha) and visited India often while growing up. She often argues that her identity makes her uniquely suited to fight for people who have been traditionally ignored. “I believe our country wants and needs some leadership that provides a vision of the country in which everyone could see themselves.” Kamala Harris Video profile of Kamala Harris Jan. 21, 2019 Learn more about Harris We asked 21 candidates the same 18 questions. Hear Kamala Harris’ answers. Ms. Harris is running as a “progressive prosecutor,” but has faced criticism from the left. Her message remains a work in progress. Here’s more on what she believes. Ms. Harris on overhauling the criminal justice system: “I know the system from the inside out.” Latest coverage Why White Iowans Want a Nominee Who Can Appeal to Nonwhite Voters December 15, 2019 What Does This Country Demand of Black Women in Politics? December 8, 2019 As Candidates Jostle for Position, a Long Race May Become a Marathon December 7, 2019 Kamala Harris Is Out: This Week in the 2020 Race December 7, 2019 Explore the other candidates Joe Biden » Cory Booker » Pete Buttigieg » Julián Castro » Tulsi Gabbard » Amy Klobuchar » Bernie Sanders » Tom Steyer » Elizabeth Warren » Andrew Yang » Advertisement Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions