https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/beto-orourke.html
Beto O’Rourke: Who He Is and What He Stands For - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Elections Today’s Paper Elections|Beto O’Rourke: Who He Is and What He Stands For https://nyti.ms/2NTBj92 Advertisement Beto O’Rourke: Who He Is and What He Stands For By Matt StevensUpdated Dec. 16, 2019 2020 Candidates Beto O’Rourke The former Texas congressman is seeking to regain the momentum he enjoyed during his 2018 run for Senate. Beto O’Rourke dropped out of the presidential race on Nov. 1, 2019. This page is no longer being updated. Who is Beto O’Rourke? 47 years old Born in El Paso; lives in his hometown Former three-term congressman representing El Paso, first elected in 2012 Lost his bid to unseat Senator Ted Cruz in 2018 O’Rourke’s signature issues Following a mass shooting in El Paso in August, Mr. O’Rourke has sought to reset his campaign and train his focus on “taking the fight to Donald Trump” over issues like immigration and gun violence. Rather than tethering himself to early voting states as he did early in his campaign, he has now spent a large share of his time in immigrant-rich communities. Three questions about Beto O’Rourke 1. So he’s the guy who lost to Ted Cruz? Yes, but narrowly. As he barnstormed towns, live-streamed his travels and spoke with his signature gusto, Mr. O’Rourke captured the imagination of Democrats in deep-red Texas and across the nation. He came within three percentage points of pulling the upset, and talk of a presidential campaign soon followed. 2. What’s this about him being in a band? Mr. O’Rourke chose to go to Columbia University in part because he looked up to his uncle, who had tapped into New York’s music scene. At the time, he went by Robert — Beto was a nickname from El Paso — and he played the guitar. He and a few of his friends formed a punk rock group. After returning home to El Paso, Mr. O’Rourke quickly transitioned from musician to businessman, using a loan from his parents to create a web design company and an online newsmagazine. His brief tenure as a publisher prompted his interest in civic issues and he joined various local organizations. Mr. O’Rourke was elected to the El Paso City Council in 2005; he won his seat in Congress seven years later. 3. How has his presidential campaign gone so far? He raised $6.1 million online during his first 24 hours as a presidential candidate. But early on, he also found himself on the defensive. He had to apologize for joking that his wife, Amy, was home raising their children, “sometimes with my help”; for writings dating back to his teen years; and for benefiting from white privilege. He was accused of being entitled after appearing in a Vanity Fair cover story about the campaign and declaring that he was “just born to be in it.” In August, a shooting at an El Paso Walmart that left 22 people dead placed the national spotlight on Mr. O’Rourke, and when he rejoined the campaign trail after going home to grieve, he made gun control a central issue. “This is going to be a positive campaign that seeks to bring out the very best from every single one of us, that seeks to unite a divided country.” Beto O’Rourke Video profile of Beto O’Rourke March 14, 2019 Learn more about O’Rourke We asked 21 candidates the same 18 questions. Hear Beto O’Rourke’s answers. The El Paso shooting was a turning point for Mr. O’Rourke, and a campaign reset soon followed. Mr. O’Rourke was once adrift in New York City, and his return to El Paso helped turn his life around. Latest coverage The End of Betomania November 2, 2019 Beto O’Rourke Drops Out of the Presidential Race November 1, 2019 Breaking Down the Biggest Debate Attacks on Warren October 16, 2019 Beto O’Rourke and Pete Buttigieg Battle Over Confiscating Assault Weapons October 15, 2019 Explore the other candidates Joe Biden » Cory Booker » Pete Buttigieg » Julián Castro » Tulsi Gabbard » Amy Klobuchar » Bernie Sanders » Tom Steyer » Elizabeth Warren » Andrew Yang » Advertisement Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions