https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-candidate-interviews.html
18 Questions. 21 Candidates. Here’s What They Said. - The New York Times
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your browser. LEARN MORE » Sections Home Search The New York Times U.S. Politics |18 Questions. 21 Candidates. Here’s What They Said. Close search Site Search Navigation Search NYTimes.com Clear this text input Go https://nyti.ms/2FjzJbg Site Navigation Site Mobile Navigation 18 Questions. 21 Candidates. Here’s What They Said. By JONAH M. KESSEL, ALEXANDER BURNS, HAEYOUN PARK and SYDNEY EMBER JUNE 19, 2019 We tracked down the 2020 Democrats and asked them the same set of questions. Meet the Candidates 18 Questions. 21 Democrats. Here’s What They Said. We tracked down the 2020 Democrats and asked them the same set of questions. We tracked down the 2020 Democrats and asked them the same set of questions. Here’s one: Closed captions Tap to unmute The Questions 1. In an ideal world, would anyone own handguns? 2. Would your focus be improving the Affordable Care Act or replacing it with single payer? 3. Do you think it’s possible for the next president to stop climate change? 4. Do you think Israel meets international standards of human rights? 5. Who is your hero, and why? 6. Would there be American troops in Afghanistan at the end of your first term? 7. How many hours of sleep do you get a night? 8. Do you think illegal immigration is a major problem in the United States? 9. Where would you go on your first international trip as president? 10. Describe the last time you were embarrassed. Why? 11. Do you think President Trump has committed crimes in office? 12. Do you support or oppose the death penalty? 13. Should tech giants like Facebook, Amazon and Google be broken up? 14. Are you open to expanding the size of the Supreme Court? 15. When did your family first arrive in the United States, and how? 16. What is your comfort food on the campaign trail? 17. What do you do to relax? 18. Does anyone deserve to have a billion dollars? The Candidates Joseph R. Biden Jr. declined to participate despite repeated requests since late April. Candidates who dropped out after the project published are indicated below. Michael Bennet Senator from Colorado Cory Booker Senator from New Jersey Steve Bullock Governor of Montana Pete Buttigieg Former mayor of South Bend, Ind. Julián Castro Former housing secretary Bill de Blasio Mayor of New York City John Delaney Former congressman from Maryland Tulsi Gabbard Congresswoman from Hawaii Kirsten Gillibrand Senator from New York Kamala Harris Senator from California John Hickenlooper Former governor of Colorado Jay Inslee Governor of Washington State Amy Klobuchar Senator from Minnesota Seth Moulton Congressman from Massachusetts Beto O’Rourke Former congressman from Texas Tim Ryan Congressman from Ohio Bernie Sanders Senator from Vermont Eric Swalwell Congressman from California Elizabeth Warren Senator from Massachusetts Marianne Williamson Self-help author Andrew Yang Former tech executive About the project The New York Times reached out to 22 Democratic presidential candidates to ask them the same set of questions on video. Twenty-one accepted the invitation. Most of the candidates visited the studio in our New York City office; for a few who could not, we traveled to Iowa, Texas and Washington, D.C. The sessions took place between the beginning of March and early June. During the interviews, we asked candidates to answer each question briefly — with a simple yes or no, or another terse, direct reply — before explaining their views at greater length. One candidate, Elizabeth Warren, who was the first to be interviewed, returned for a second session after we added a number of questions to our initial list. We did not ask John Hickenlooper when his family first arrived in the United States because we added that question after his interview. In the case of one question — regarding President Trump’s legal issues — the candidates answered at different points during the completion of the investigation by Special Counsel Robert S. Mueller III, so their answers reflected the facts available to them at the time. Reporters/Producers Alexander Burns Sydney Ember Jonah M. Kessel Haeyoun Park Director of Cinematography Jonah M. Kessel Design/Development Larry Buchanan Alastair Coote Rebecca Lieberman Umi Syam Cinematography Yousur Al-hlou Tony Cenicola Michael Cordero KC McGinnis Edythe McNamee Julio Quintana Emily Rhyne Abe Sater Joshua Thomas Ainara Tiefenthäler Photography Tony Cenicola Tanner Curtis Todd Heisler Editors Meg Felling Shane O'Neill Additional Editors Alexandra Eaton Dave Horn Robin Lindsay Will Lloyd Ainara Tiefenthäler Additional Production Aaron Byrd Amanda Cordero Michael Cordero Dave DeCristo Alex Garces Abe Sater Jessica White More on NYTimes.com Advertisement Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company Home Search Accessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you. Contact Us Work with us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Information Navigation Site Map Help Site Feedback Subscriptions