https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/politics/democratic-candidates-20-questions.html
20 (More) Questions With Democrats - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Comments 20 (More) Questions With DemocratsSkip to Comments The comments section is closed. To submit a letter to the editor for publication, write to letters@nytimes.com. 20 (More) Questions With Democrats Jan. 25, 2020 + We sat down again with Democratic presidential candidates and asked them a new set of questions. Here’s one: Candidates Up Close 20 (More) Questions With Democrats We sat down again with Democratic presidential candidates and asked them a new set of questions. Here’s one: We sat down again with Democratic presidential candidates and asked them a new set of questions. Here’s one: Closed captions Tap to unmute The Questions 1. How would you handle a general-election debate against Trump? 2. Do you think the United States is a racist country? 3. Do you think the next administration will need to investigate President Trump or members of his family? 4. What attributes would you look for in a running mate? 5. Who is one foreign leader you admire? 6. What is the most important thing foreign leaders should know about you? 7. Do you see Saudi Arabia as a U.S. ally? 8. Does the United States have a role to play in Hong Kong? 9. What is the most urgent economic challenge facing the United States today? 10. By what year do you think the U.S. needs to cut its carbon emissions to zero? 11. Should vaping products be legal? 12. Would it be important to you to get Republican support for your agenda? 13. How would you judge whether your presidency was a success or a failure? 14. How would you make sure no one in your family tries to profit off your administration? 15. What is the last book you read? 16. Do you have a celebrity crush? 17. Do you have a bad habit? 18. What do you think your 18-year-old self would think of you now? 19. What has been the most memorable moment of the campaign for you, so far? 20. Do you think Barack Obama made any mistakes as president? The Candidates We Interviewed Former vice president Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont declined to participate. Michael R. Bloomberg Former mayor of New York City Pete Buttigieg Former mayor of South Bend, Ind. Amy Klobuchar Senator from Minnesota Tom Steyer Former hedge fund executive Elizabeth Warren Senator from Massachusetts Andrew Yang Former tech executive About the project The New York Times reached out to nine Democratic presidential candidates to ask them the same set of questions on video. Seven accepted the invitation. Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey was interviewed in December, but has since dropped out of the race. Former vice president Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont declined to participate. Most of the candidates visited the studio in our New York City office. We traveled to Los Angeles for two interview sessions. The interviews took place between Dec. 10 and Jan. 22. During the sessions, we asked candidates for a terse, direct reply before explaining their views at greater length. The Times interviewed a larger pool of Democratic candidates last spring. Watch their answers. Reporters/Producers Alexander Burns Jonah M. Kessel Haeyoun Park Director of Cinematography Jonah M. Kessel Design/Development Larry Buchanan Alastair Coote Jon Huang Rebecca Lieberman Additional Cinematography Yousur Al-hlou Emily Rhyne Photography Tony Cenicola Tanner Curtis Todd Heisler Calla Kessler Editors Meg Felling Christina Kelso Shane O'Neill Emily Rhyne Additional Production Michael Cordero Dave DeCristo Abe Sater Jessica White Write a comment Advertisement Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions