https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/28/us/politics/Facebook-Acronym-advertising.html#site-index
How a Digital Ad Strategy That Helped Trump Is Being Used Against Him - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics|How a Digital Ad Strategy That Helped Trump Is Being Used Against Him https://nyti.ms/2SgzyUS The Coronavirus Outbreak debugid:204 • Latest Updates Maps and Tracker New Symptom List Markets Life at Home Newsletter AdvertisementContinue reading the main story How a Digital Ad Strategy That Helped Trump Is Being Used Against Him A former Facebook employee is using a tool he employed to help President Trump win to conduct tests for a progressive group, Acronym, dedicated to ousting Mr. Trump from office. The office of the progressive nonprofit group Acronym in Washington in 2019.Credit...T.J. Kirkpatrick for The New York Times By Nick Corasaniti April 28, 2020 Facebook users in five key swing states have been seeing a peculiar sequence of political ads pixelating their news feeds for the past six months. It begins with a carousel ad from a page called United Research Group asking them to fill out a lengthy survey. Soon afterward, multiple ads from Pacronym, a progressive super PAC, begin to litter the Facebook experience of about half of those who had been surveyed. Then, an ad for a different but related survey appears. This rather specific experience is an intentional and coordinated effort to reach persuadable voters in critical presidential battlegrounds, a result of months of work by a group of former Facebook employees and data scientists at the progressive nonprofit group Acronym. Essentially, the group, which includes some who worked on the Trump campaign in 2016, has co-opted the political ad function on Facebook to perform real-time persuasion message testing, to get a sense of how voters are reacting to ads as they see them. In the fast-paced world of digital advertising, the availability of real-time data beyond mere engagement is fairly small, leaving campaigns with a patchwork of clicks, old polling and hunches to assess the impact of the millions of dollars they are spending on digital platforms. And Facebook, with about 220 million users in the country, remains the central digital vehicle for reaching Americans who are spending more time online during the coronavirus pandemic. About $100 million has already been spent on the platform for the 2020 presidential election. The coronavirus outbreak has also forced 2020 campaigns to rely on a nearly entirely digital infrastructure, from fund-raising to organizing to persuasion. Having fresh data to inform campaign arguments online is essential. This real-time testing project aims to help fill that gap. Called “Barometer,” the project has been the obsession of James Barnes, the former Facebook employee who was heralded as an “M.V.P.” of the 2016 Trump campaign and has since dedicated his professional life to undoing the results of the last presidential election. He found a home for the project at Acronym, which also houses Pacronym. “The thing that Facebook does really well, and the thing that I learned pretty extensively at Facebook, is how to measure things,” Mr. Barnes said. “As I considered what I wanted to do after Facebook as I went through sort of this political transformation, I wanted to know: What is the best way that I could contribute to help defeat Trump in 2020?” During the 2016 election, Mr. Barnes often used a Facebook tool known as “brand lift” to test different persuasion messages online for the Trump campaign. The tool provided insight into whether some of the online ads were moving people. Latest Updates: Coronavirus Outbreak in the U.S. 100 days, one million confirmed infections, and a country transformed. New C.D.C. statistics reveal more about the true death toll. A report on the U.S. economy is going to be bad, and the Fed is weighing further interventions. See more updates Updated 1m ago More live coverage: Global Markets New York That tool has since been taken away from political campaigns by Facebook, part of its broad restructuring of how campaigns are allowed to operate on the platform following widespread backlash after the 2016 election. Through his small team of engineers and data scientists, as well as ample cash from Acronym, which does not disclose its donors, Mr. Barnes has been able to recreate, to an extent, a similar tool. “What’s felt impossible in the past is to test the real-world effect of ads of people who actually saw them, on an ongoing, consistent basis,” said Solomon Messing, the chief data scientist at Acronym. “And what we did was to develop a way to do this on Facebook.” The tests are run in five states — Arizona, Michigan, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania and North Carolina (a full test involves selecting the audience, delivering an initial survey, running ads to half of the respondents, running the second survey to everyone and analyzing the results). Using a voter file maintained by Acronym, the group casts a wide net for a list of names, based in part on voting history, propensity to vote for President Trump in 2020 and party registration. The group then sends those results in a list to Facebook to build an audience to advertise to in those five states. The audience is further whittled through the survey, which features fact-based questions like who controls the House or the length of a Senate term. The audience that is unable to answer those questions is considered among the most persuadable with ads. The findings show that voters with low political knowledge and low news consumption, Mr. Barnes said, “support the idea that when folks have just kind of a lower baseline of information, we actually can persuade them by just showing them more of the information that’s true.” Of course, these tests are run in relatively small groups, and the overall impact of the ad campaigns that result from these findings would be nearly impossible to assess at scale. And low-information voters, one of the central targets of the program, can be notoriously fickle in their preferences, particularly early in the year. Additionally, the Barometer team knows its testing involves a lot of “noise,” the statistical term for unexplained variables that could muddy their results. But seeing overall trends and percentage points of moves, they say, is a similar process to bringing a prescription drug to market: a test group, a control group and then results, with conclusions drawn from there. Barometer has run a variety of tests on messaging during real-time news events, from impeachment to the killing of Qassim Suleimani, the Iranian military commander, to the coronavirus response. The results haven’t always been as expected. Nearly all messaging about impeachment was received poorly, and low-information and swing voters tended to side with the president. Pacronym quickly dialed back some of its impeachment advertising. The most consequential test, however, was over the killing of Mr. Suleimani. Though responses mostly hewed to partisan lines, the team saw significant movement among Trump-leaning voters away from the president when presented with critical commentary from a conservative messenger. It is a tactic known as “boosted news,” or the practice of paying to place news articles in the newsfeed of users. In this test, a clip featuring Tucker Carlson, the prime-time Fox News host, excoriating the president for coming close to starting a war with Iran lowered the president’s approval rating among older voters and low-information voters in their test universe. Trusted local news sources also had an especially big impact. More tests, particularly in the coronavirus response, found that boosted news had a far greater impact than running a typical negative political ad with all the hyperbolic trappings. That result excited, among others, the accountants at Acronym; simply boosting news and conservative commentary critical of the president was much cheaper than creating original ads and content. Though most of the results have remained in-house at Acronym, and informed Pacronym’s spending, the group has started briefing other Democratic strategists about the findings, and is hoping to make them public soon. “There is this sort of need to hold any research close to the chest that I think is a bit outdated and irrelevant today because what works for our voters to get them to vote for Vice President Biden in November is not going to work for Trump’s purposes,” said Tara McGowan, the chief executive and founder of Acronym. Democrats hope the Barometer tool can help them improve a major deficit they face online against Republicans, what’s known as the “last mile” of content to reach a voter. Whereas a Trump tweet ricochets around a vast, expansive and influential far-right echo chamber online, Democrats have been unable to find a similar highway to reach voters. “The Democrats have a last-mile problem when it comes to persuadable voters,” said Dan Pfeiffer, a Democratic strategist who worked on both of President Barack Obama’s campaigns. “Republicans have Fox News and a gazillion Facebook-friendly conservative media, and we as a party have relied anachronistically on the mainstream media.” Mr. Pfeiffer, who has been briefed on some of the Barometer results, said that the findings, and the expanded use of boosted news, could come at a critical time in the election: With most voters spending more time at home and on screens during the coronavirus outbreak, there is ample opportunity to expand a digital advertising operation. Pacronym ads have responded accordingly. For most of early April, the group’s ads attacking Mr. Trump’s handling of the coronavirus outbreak highlighted past statements in which he played down the risk of the virus. But after their testing on the coronavirus was completed in mid-April, the group found that focusing on the plight of health care professionals, rather than on some of Mr. Trump’s earlier comments, had a greater impact. On April 13, Pacronym switched its large-scale ads on Facebook to news clips of health care professionals running out of personal protective equipment; one clip featuring an NBC report about nurses forced to wear garbage bags to protect themselves reached as many as three million people, according to Facebook’s ad library. “You’ve got to think about this not as a magic ad,” said David Plouffe, the campaign manager for Mr. Obama in 2008 and a member of the Acronym board. “It’s a constant narrative to people who are really tough to reach, really tough to persuade, and really tough to take action.” The Coronavirus Outbreak Frequently Asked Questions and Advice Updated April 11, 2020 When will this end? This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days. How can I help? The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.) What should I do if I feel sick? If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. Should I wear a mask? The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. How do I get tested? If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. How does coronavirus spread? It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face. Is there a vaccine yet? No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away. What makes this outbreak so different? Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard. What if somebody in my family gets sick? If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently. Should I stock up on groceries? Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home. Can I go to the park? Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea. Should I pull my money from the markets? That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years. What should I do with my 401(k)? Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions