https://www.nytimes.com/by/trip-gabriel
Trip Gabriel - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Today’s Paper Trip Gabriel Trip Gabriel is a national correspondent. He covered the 2016 and 2012 presidential campaigns, including spending all of 2015 in Iowa for the run-up to the state's caucuses. He travelled extensively in battleground states to write about candidates and interview voters. He has served as the Mid-Atlantic bureau chief, covering poverty in Appalachia and the corruption trial of an ex-Virginia governor. More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Latest Search Search Clear this text input Ohio’s G.O.P. Governor Splits From Trump, and Rises in Popularity Mike DeWine, a low-key career politician, has followed health experts’ guidance as Ohio confronts the coronavirus. His constituents are overwhelmingly appreciative. By Trip Gabriel Vote for Biden? Sanders Supporters Say It’s ‘Up in the Air’ In interviews, some of Bernie Sanders’s primary voters saw Joe Biden as a weaker candidate than Hillary Clinton. Others didn’t think he could win. Nearly all were unenthusiastic. By Trip Gabriel Gretchen Whitmer Isn’t Backing Down Right-wing protesters, Republican lawmakers and President Trump are attacking the Michigan governor, a possible vice-presidential pick. “I’m not thinking about politics,” she says. By Trip Gabriel and Jonathan Martin How the Virus Crisis Could Help a Red-State Democrat Stay in Office In North Carolina, where the governor’s race is tight, and New Hampshire, where a Republican seeks re-election in a blue-trending state, incumbents could benefit from newfound star power. By Trip Gabriel Who Are the Voters Behind Trump’s Higher Approval Rating? Despite the president’s slow performance on the coronavirus and his series of falsehoods, some independent voters and Democrats are giving him a measure of credit for his handling of the crisis. By Trip Gabriel and Lisa Lerer As States Delay Primaries, June 2 Is Suddenly a Big Tuesday on the Calendar As many as 12 states may hold primaries on June 2, which now carries the biggest delegate haul since Super Tuesday. That could change how the rest of the Democratic race plays out. By Trip Gabriel How Biden’s Victory in Michigan Points to Trouble for Trump in November Joe Biden lifted turnout and performed well among key demographic groups, signs that suggest the president may struggle to replicate his 2016 success in the crucial swing state. By Trip Gabriel and Stephanie Saul Sanders Is Counting on His Own Firewall: Michigan’s Blue-Collar Voters White working-class voters lifted Bernie Sanders to victory over Hillary Clinton in Michigan four years ago, but Joe Biden won that demographic on Super Tuesday, as well as African-Americans. By Trip Gabriel Sanders Continues Attacks on Trade but Concedes Biden Could Beat Trump “As we enter the moment in this campaign where we come down to a two-person race, I think it important for us to differentiate our records, and I intend to do that,” Mr. Sanders said. By Trip Gabriel and Matt Stevens Doubts Linger as Democrats Vote: ‘I Don’t Think We Have a Perfect Candidate’ Many Super Tuesday voters across the nation made last-minute decisions, sometimes on the way to the polls. Even afterward, some weren’t sure they had chosen correctly. By Trip Gabriel Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Follow Elsewhere tripgabrieltwitter page for tripgabriel trip.gabrielfacebook page for trip.gabriel Feedback? Questions? Include your name, the article headline, and your message. Email Author Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions