https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html#states
Coronavirus in the U.S.: Latest Map and Case Count - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index U.S. Today’s Paper U.S.|Coronavirus in the U.S.: Latest Map and Case Count https://nyti.ms/39jvJEY Advertisement Coronavirus in the U.S.: Latest Map and Case Count By The New York TimesUpdated April 29, 2020, 8:12 A.M. E.T. World COUNTRIES | U.S.A. STATES BrazilCanadaFranceGermanyIndiaItalyU.K. AlabamaAlaskaArizonaArkansasCaliforniaColoradoConnecticutDelawareFloridaGeorgiaHawaiiIdahoIllinoisIndianaIowaKansasKentuckyLouisianaMaineMarylandMassachusettsMichiganMinnesotaMississippiMissouriMontanaNebraskaNevadaNew HampshireNew JerseyNew MexicoNew YorkNorth CarolinaNorth DakotaOhioOklahomaOregonPennsylvaniaPuerto RicoRhode IslandSouth CarolinaSouth DakotaTennesseeTexasUtahVermontVirginiaWashingtonWashington, D.C.West VirginiaWisconsinWyoming 0 20,000 cases Feb. 26 Apr. 28 7-day average New cases Total Cases 1 million+ Deaths 53,034 MapCases by stateHot spotsClustersLatest news » More than 1 million people in the United States have been infected with the coronavirus and at least 53,000 have died, according to a New York Times database. Those numbers do not include more than 5,300 people in New York City who died and are believed to have had the coronavirus. Many of those patients died without being tested, a consequence of a strained medical system and a persistent lack of testing capacity. Confirmed cases in the United States Total cases Deaths Per capita deaths deaths Total reported cases per 100,000 people +10 +100 +200 No cases reported Double-click to zoom into the map. Use two fingers to pan and zoom. Tap for details. Note: The map shows the known locations of coronavirus cases by county. For total cases and deaths: Circles are sized by the number of people there who have tested positive, which may differ from where they contracted the illness. For per capita: Parts of a county with a population density lower than 10 people per square mile are not shaded. Sources: State and local health agencies and hospitals. Download county-level data for coronavirus cases in the United States from The New York Times on GitHub. The continued spread of the virus, and the continued rise in the death toll, comes as political leaders seek to reopen parts of the country. But stay-at-home orders remain in effect in many states, Americans have been told to wear face coverings in public and true normalcy remains a distant vision. Every day, more beloved events are scrubbed from the calendar. There will be no Butterfest this year in Reedsburg, Wis., no fair on Martha’s Vineyard, no Czech Days in South Dakota. Where new cases are increasing These states have had recent growth in newly reported cases. Scales are adjusted for each state to make the curve more readable. Feb. 26 Apr. 28 7-day average Massachusetts 58,302 total cases Illinois 48,102 Maryland 20,113 Indiana 16,588 Virginia 14,339 Colorado 14,239 Tennessee 10,031 North Carolina 9,568 Where new cases are mostly the same The growth rate of the virus has appeared to slow in some states with a high number of cases, but a lack of widespread testing may mean that cases are being undercounted. Feb. 26 Apr. 28 7-day average New York 295,137 total cases New Jersey 113,856 California 46,570 Pennsylvania 45,323 Michigan 39,234 Texas 26,865 Connecticut 26,312 Washington 14,059 Where new cases are decreasing Feb. 26 Apr. 28 7-day average Florida 32,838 total cases Louisiana 27,286 Georgia 23,607 Ohio 16,769 South Dakota 2,314 Idaho 1,810 West Virginia 1,095 Vermont 862 Note: States and territories are grouped according to how the seven-day average of new cases has changed from a week ago to today. The outbreak in this country, which now has the highest number of known cases in the world, has exploded over the last two months. At the start of March, with extremely limited testing available, only 70 cases had been reported in the United States, most of them tied to overseas travel. Over the last three weeks, well over 1,000 deaths have been announced each day, including several days with more than 2,000. The number of known cases in the country now exceeds the combined populations of Wyoming and Minneapolis. As of Wednesday morning, at least 1,012,683 people across every state, plus Washington, D.C., and four U.S. territories, have tested positive for the virus, according to a New York Times database. Where cases are rising fastest Cases currently doubling every ... 7 days 14 days 30 days Fewer than 20 cases No cases reported Double-click to zoom into the map. Use two fingers to pan and zoom. Tap for details. Cases and deaths by state and county Cases Per 100,000 People Deaths Per 100,000 People Slower Faster Case Growth Rate + New York MAP » 295,137 1,517 17,638 91 Feb. 26 Apr. 28 + New Jersey MAP » 113,856 1,282 6,442 73 + Massachusetts MAP » 58,302 846 3,153 46 + Illinois MAP » 48,102 380 2,132 17 + California MAP » 46,570 118 1,884 5 + Pennsylvania MAP » 45,323 354 2,092 16 + Michigan MAP » 39,234 393 3,566 36 + Florida MAP » 32,838 153 1,170 5 + Louisiana MAP » 27,286 587 1,758 38 + Texas MAP » 26,865 93 738 3 Show all Note: Growth rate shows how frequently the number of cases has doubled over the previous seven days. The fastest rate color shows when cases are doubling in less than 3 days, while the slowest rate color shows when cases are doubling much more slowly, once every 30 days or longer. Growth rate not shown for counties with fewer than 20 cases. See our live coverage of the coronavirus outbreak for the latest news. American life has been fundamentally reordered because of the virus. Concerts, graduations and proms have been called off. Unemployment claims have spiked. Some governors have imposed quarantine requirements on Americans who cross state lines. And even as portions of the country begin to reopen, officials have warned that the return to communal life would come in stages, and that the virus could surge anew in the months ahead. New reported cases by day in the United States 0 10,000 20,000 30,000 cases Feb. 26 Apr. 28 7-day average New cases Note: The seven-day average is the average of a day and the previous six days of data. New reported deaths by day in the United States 0 1,000 2,000 deaths Feb. 26 Apr. 28 7-day average New deaths The New York Times has found that official tallies in the United States and in other countries around the world have undercounted deaths during the coronavirus outbreak because of limited testing availability. The New York Times is engaged in a comprehensive effort to track the details of every coronavirus case in the United States, collecting information from federal, state and local officials around the clock. The numbers in this article are being updated several times a day based on the latest information our journalists are gathering from around the country. The Times has made that data public in hopes of helping researchers and policymakers as they seek to slow the pandemic and prevent future ones. See our maps tracking the coronavirus outbreak around the world. Some businesses are back open. Commerce has started to resume in pockets of the country, even as the virus continues to spread. . Restaurants in Alaska were allowed to host some dine-in customers. Students in Montana could return to class as early as next month. And in hard-hit Georgia, the Republican governor allowed a range of businesses, including tattoo parlors and bowling alleys, to reopen despite pushback from public health officials and President Trump. Though many called the return to business premature, even dangerous, state and local officials elsewhere have planned to start gradual reopenings of their own in the coming days. And in places where lockdowns remain in place, including in Wisconsin and Kansas, protesters have gathered to state their displeasure with the continuing restrictions. In much of the country, case numbers remain high and officials have warned that reopening may still be weeks away. The counties that include Los Angeles and Chicago added more than 1,000 new cases on several recent days. In Massachusetts, case numbers surpassed 58,000 on Tuesday, up nearly 17,000 in just one week. But the partial resumption of public life comes amid encouraging signs in other regions. In New York, the governor predicted the worst was over. In Vermont and Hawaii, cases are decreasing. And in New Orleans, where hundreds of infections were being announced each day in early April, only a few dozen per day are being reported now. In South Dakota, where residents were never ordered to stay home, Gov. Kristi Noem released what she called a “Back to Normal” plan on Tuesday. It left open the possibility of students returning to class before the end of the academic year and gave businesses suggestions on reopening. “In addition to the health costs, the social costs of this virus are historic in the worst way,” Ms. Noem said in a statement. Case numbers spike in Midwestern meatpacking cities Across the Midwest and Great Plains, production at meatpacking plants and other food processing centers has slowed or stopped because of large outbreaks, including one at a Smithfield facility in South Dakota that sickened more than 1,000 people. The Times has confirmed coronavirus clusters in more than 40 food processing facilities across the country. Thousands of workers and their close contacts have been infected. Those numbers are almost certainly an undercount. Some companies, including Smithfield, have refused to provide even basic information about the size of their outbreaks. And in some states, health departments have also declined to give that information. Hot spots: Counties with the highest number of cases per resident County Cases Per 100,000 People Slower Faster Case Growth Rate Lincoln, Ark. 755 5,513 Feb. 26 Apr. 28 Bledsoe, Tenn. 589 4,034 Rockland, N.Y. 11,453 3,538 Marion, Ohio 2,191 3,353 Dakota, Neb. 629 3,096 Pickaway, Ohio 1,706 2,971 Westchester, N.Y. 28,245 2,915 Cass, Ind. 1,101 2,891 Nassau, N.Y. 35,085 2,586 Louisa, Iowa 269 2,397 Show all Note: Table includes the top counties with at least 20 reported cases when adjusted for population. Small metro areas with large meatpacking industries are seeing some of the country’s highest rates of growth in cases. In the county that includes Waterloo, Iowa, cases grew tenfold over two weeks amid an outbreak sickened hundreds of people at a Tyson plant. In Cass County, Ind., where dozens more Tyson workers fell ill, the number of known cases surged from 52 to more than 1,000 over 10 days. And in the county that includes Green Bay, Wis., where there are outbreaks at three meatpacking facilities, cases grew to 920 from 97 in a two-week stretch. The outbreaks have proved devastating to the immigrant communities that often supply much of the labor at those plants, as well as to the farmers who depend on the facilities for their livelihoods. As industry executives spoke of coming meat shortages and farmers warned that they could have to euthanize their animals, Mr. Trump on Tuesday declared the meatpacking plants to be critical infrastructure, part of an effort to keep the facilities open. Representatives for meatpacking workers said more protections were needed in order for the facilities to keep operating. “While we share the concern over the food supply, today’s executive order to force meatpacking plants to stay open must put the safety of our country’s meatpacking workers first,” the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union said Tuesday in a statement. “Simply put, we cannot have a secure food supply without the safety of these workers.” New York: 295,000 cases have been identified. For weeks now, New York has faced the worst news of any state in the country. In recent days, that has started to change. Though hundreds of deaths and thousands of new cases are still reported each day, hospitalization rates have plunged and officials have started implementing plans for a slow reopening of the economy. “The descent continues, and that’s a very good starting place,” Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said this week. Still, the continuing toll of this spring has been immense. People with the virus have died in more than 40 New York counties, including more than 1,000 victims each in Nassau, Suffolk and Westchester Counties. New York City has fared the worst, with thousands of known cases and hundreds of deaths in each borough. The city’s mayor, Bill de Blasio, compared the pandemic to “many Katrinas.” Both Mr. Cuomo and Mr. de Blasio said a fuller reopening of the economy would be contingent on far greater testing capacity. “We’ll need massive amounts of testing, readily available in every community,” Mr. de Blasio said. “We’ll need the ability to rapidly trace the contacts of everyone who tests positive, so we can evaluate and isolate them. This is how we keep beating this disease back.” Though New York has had by far the most cases, other Northeastern states have also seen severe outbreaks. New Jersey has the second-highest number of known cases in the country. In Rhode Island, the death toll has nearly tripled in two weeks. And in Connecticut, where 85 deaths had been linked to the virus at the start of April, the death total neared 2,100 on Tuesday. See how the rate of deaths has changed over time in different states and countries. In America’s nursing homes, outbreaks surge. Across the country, a pattern has played out with tragic consistency: Someone gets sick in a nursing home. Soon, several residents and employees have the coronavirus. The New York Times has identified more than 5,700 nursing homes and other long-term care facilities across the United States with coronavirus cases. More than 80,000 residents and staff members at those facilities have contracted the virus, and more than 14,000 have died. That means nearly a quarter of the deaths in the pandemic have been linked to long-term care facilities. Older people and those with underlying health problems are most vulnerable to Covid-19, making the consequences of a nursing home outbreak especially devastating. At least 43 deaths have been linked to an outbreak at the Life Care nursing facility in Kirkland, Wash. Many of the victims were in their 80s or 90s. At least 46 people have died from the virus at the Canterbury Rehabilitation & Healthcare Center, a nursing facility in Richmond, Va. The New York Times is tracking the coronavirus at nursing homes and long-term care centers. Do you or a family member live or work in one of these facilities? If so, we’d like to hear from you. In Kansas, 28 people have died in one facility. In Massachusetts, dozens of people have died at a home for military veterans. Similar outbreaks have been reported by the hundreds all over the country, including in Alabama, in Illinois and at a facility in Andover, N.J., where dozens of deaths have been linked to the virus. “This disease creates the potential for a perfect storm in a long-term care facility — large groups of vulnerable people living together and a highly transmissible virus that may not cause symptoms in those who care for them,” said Dr. Daniel Rusyniak, the chief medical officer for Indiana’s state social services agency. Following critical media reports and public pressure, the Trump administration told the operators of the nation’s nursing homes to let patients and their families know if there are cases of the coronavirus within their facilities. The order will require the facilities to report such cases to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention within about 12 hours or face fines. Though many of the first coronavirus cases in the United States were tied to overseas travel, localized outbreaks have become increasingly common. New clusters in nursing homes and other settings, including a psychiatric hospital in Nevada and a date-packing facility in California, are emerging each day. Times journalists have for weeks tracked clusters of cases and deaths across the country. The largest such outbreaks include prisons in Ohio and Arkansas, the meatpacking plant in South Dakota, an aircraft carrier docked in Guam and a jail in Chicago. The deadliest outbreaks have been in nursing homes and other long-term care facilities. Cases Connected To Cases Marion Correctional Institution — Marion, Ohio 2,179 Pickaway Correctional Institution — Scioto Township, Ohio 1,629 Smithfield Foods pork processing facility — Sioux Falls, S.D. 1,095 U.S.S. Theodore Roosevelt — Guam 969 Cook County jail — Chicago, Ill. 940 Cummins Unit prison — Grady, Ark. 911 Lakeland Correctional Facility — Coldwater, Mich. 816 Bledsoe County Correctional Complex — Pikeville, Tenn. 583 Harris County jail — Houston, Texas 515 Neuse Correctional Institution — Goldsboro, N.C. 466 Show all Some agencies and facilities have refused to release the numbers of cases or deaths. Nearly 1,400 inmates and guards have tested positive across New York City’s 10 jails, and 13 deaths have been tied to those facilities. The vast majority of the infections and deaths have occurred among correctional officers. Jason Kersten, a spokesman for the New York City Department of Correction, has declined to specify how many cases were associated with each jail. Prisons have been overwhelmed by the virus The number of infections in prisons has increased rapidly during the past week. There have been more than 16,000 infections in state prison systems, including almost 12,000 inmates who have tested positive. More than 130 inmates have died. The federal prison system has also been hit hard. At least 23 federal inmates with the virus have died, as has at least one federal prison worker. Nearly every state prison system has at least one infection among either inmates or staff, suggesting that the problem will become significantly larger during the next several weeks. Fear and pessimism has settled in among inmates. Riots in Kansas and Washington state were led by inmates worried about contracting the coronavirus, prison officials said. The country’s two largest known coronavirus clusters are in Ohio prisons. “We’re just waiting for the next person to test positive,” said Elijah McDowell, an inmate in Connecticut. During interviews with nearly two dozen inmates across the nation, prisoners say that correctional facilities are responding to the crisis far too slowly. At Wyoming Correctional Facility in Attica, N.Y., Tracy White, 30, said that only workers on the serving line in the prison’s mess hall are required to wear masks covering their nose and mouth. “A lot of people are nervous, tense, scared,” Mr. White said. Social distancing, he said, is impossible. Beds are placed three feet apart. As Mr. White spoke over a prison telephone, he said another inmate was on another phone less than two feet away. He said he had cleaned the phone as best as he could, but that he was also wearing a sock on his hand to protect himself from germs. The New York Times has also spoken with more than three dozen workers and inmates in the federal Bureau of Prisons who have said that federal prisons are ill-prepared for a coronavirus outbreak. Many lack basic supplies, like masks, hand sanitizer and soap. Workers have complained that inmates are still being moved from prison to prison. "It shows a lack of concern for the welfare of inmates, staff and their families," said Jose Rojas, an official in the prison workers' union and a teacher at the Coleman prison complex in Sumterville, Fla., where coronavirus cases have begun to emerge. The bureau, he said, is "putting us in danger." Detroit and Chicago confront thousands of cases Urban areas across the Midwest have now weathered weeks of rising death tolls and uncontained spread. Though conditions have started to improve in some cities, lockdowns remain in place and hospitals remain busy. On Tuesday, the death toll in Detroit reached 988. “More than one in 1,000 of our neighbors has died in the last three weeks,” the city’s mayor, Mike Duggan, said recently. Even as new hospitalizations dipped in Detroit, much of the region continued to struggle. More than 280 deaths have been tied to the virus in the county that includes Indianapolis. At least 164 deaths and nearly 2,800 cases have been reported in Milwaukee County, Wis. And in Illinois, officials announced more than 140 new deaths on Tuesday, the most of any day of the pandemic. . More than 19,000 people in Chicago alone have been infected, and more than 800 have died. Gov. J.B. Pritzker of Illinois spoke with alarm after a video circulated on social media showing an apparent house party in which large numbers of people were packed closely together. On Monday, the Chicago police said they had cited the homeowner who they believe hosted the gathering. “By standing together, not social distancing, many people not wearing masks — you’re literally putting everyone around you in danger,” said Mr. Pritzker, who has ordered Illinoisans to stay at home. “All of those people have violated not only the intention of the order we put out, but also have violated the trust of their friends and family.” Black Americans face worse health outcomes Across much of the country, African-Americans have been infected with the coronavirus at disproportionate rates. In Louisiana, where about one-third of residents are black, 58 percent of coronavirus patients who died have been African-American. In Michigan, where less than 15 percent of residents are black, about 40 percent of those who died from the virus have been. And in Illinois, where white people outnumber African-American residents by a rate of four to one, 772 black people and 877 white people with the virus had died as of Tuesday. “We know the cause: centuries of health disparities fostered by systemic divestment in community health,” Representative Robin Kelly, Democrat of Illinois, said on Twitter. But a full national picture of the racial impact was clouded by uneven reporting across states and counties. In many places, racial data for a large percentage of patients was unavailable, potentially skewing results. Other states provided no racial data. In California, where early reports suggested that the impact of the virus was spread at roughly proportional rates across racial groups, state officials issued a statement recently saying that black people were being hit harder there, too. Tracking the Coronavirus World Deaths U.S. cities Look up your city State shutdown status Countries Brazil Canada France Germany India Italy U.K. United States State by state Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington Washington, D.C. West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming What You Can Do Experts’ understanding of how the virus spreads is still limited, but there are four factors that most likely play a role: how close you get; how long you are near the person; whether that person projects viral droplets on you; and how much you touch your face. If your community is affected, you can help reduce your risk and do your part to protect others by following some basic steps: Wash your hands! Scrub with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, and then dry them with a clean towel or let them air dry. Keep distance from sick people. Try to stay six feet away from anybody showing flu- or cold-like symptoms, and don’t go to work if you’re sick. Prepare your family, and communicate your plan about evacuations, resources and supplies. Experts suggest stocking at least a 30-day supply of any needed prescriptions. Consider doing the same for food staples, laundry detergent and diapers, if you have small children. Here’s a complete guide on how you can prepare for the coronavirus outbreak. Note: Data are based on reports by states and counties at the time of publication. Local governments may revise reported numbers as they get new information. Some deaths may be reported by officials in two different jurisdictions. When possible, deaths have been reported here in the jurisdiction where the death occurred. While the first known case in the United States was announced on Jan. 21, charts show cases since Feb. 26, when American public health officials first identified community transmission of the virus. Visit our GitHub page for more information on the methodology of this data. *Cases in New York City and Kansas City, Mo., both of which span several counties, are grouped together. Cases in a state that have been reported without a specific county are listed as county “unknown.” Population data from Census Bureau. By Sarah Almukhtar, Aliza Aufrichtig, Matthew Bloch, Julia Calderone, Keith Collins, Amy Harmon, Rich Harris, Adeel Hassan, Jon Huang, Danielle Ivory, K.K. Rebecca Lai, Allison McCann, Richard A. Oppel Jr., Jugal K. Patel, Anjali Singhvi, Charlie Smart, Mitch Smith, Derek Watkins, Timothy Williams, Jin Wu and Karen Yourish. · Reporting was contributed by Jordan Allen, Jeff Arnold, Mike Baker, Ellen Barry, Samone Blair, Nicholas Bogel-Burroughs, Aurelien Breeden, Emma Bubola, Maddie Burakoff, Christopher Calabrese, Sarah Cahalan, Robert Chiarito, Matt Craig, Brandon Dupré, Melissa Eddy, John Eligon, Timmy Facciola, Matt Furber, Robert Gebeloff, Matthew Goldstein, Rebecca Griesbach, Lauryn Higgins, Jake Holland, Jon Huang, Danya Issawi, Anna Joyce, Jacob LaGesse, Patricia Mazzei, Jesse McKinley, Miles McKinley, Sarah Mervosh, Andrea Michelson, Steven Moity, Thomas Gibbons-Neff, Azi Paybarah, Sean Plambeck, Elisabetta Povoledo, Scott Reinhard, Thomas Rivas, Alison Saldanha, Alex Schwartz, Libby Seline, Anjali Singhvi, Alex Traub, Maura Turcotte, Tracey Tully, Lisa Waananen Jones, Amy Schoenfeld Walker and Jeremy White. · Data acquisition and additional work contributed by Will Houp, Andrew Chavez, Michael Strickland, Tiff Fehr, Miles Watkins, Josh Williams, Albert Sun, Shelly Seroussi, Nina Pavlich, Carmen Cincotti, Ben Smithgall, Andrew Fischer, Rachel Shorey, Blacki Migliozzi, Alastair Coote, Steven Speicher, Hugh Mandeville, Robin Berjon, Thu Trinh, Carolyn Price and Michael Robles. Advertisement Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions