https://www.nytimes.com/2012/02/18/us/politics/in-ohio-romney-loses-senator-dewines-endorsement.html
In Ohio, Romney Loses Senator DeWine’s Endorsement - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics|In Ohio, a Romney Backer Transfers His Allegiance AdvertisementContinue reading the main story In Ohio, a Romney Backer Transfers His Allegiance Mike DeWine, center, with his wife, Fran, changed course Friday and endorsed Rick Santorum.Credit...Andrew Spear for The New York Times By Richard A. Oppel Jr. and Jim Rutenberg Feb. 18, 2012 DETROIT — As the battle for the Republican nomination moves to the Midwest, Mike DeWine, a former senator and the attorney general of Ohio, abruptly defected from Mitt Romney’s camp on Friday and endorsed Rick Santorum, saying Mr. Santorum, a former Pennsylvania senator, stands a better chance of defeating President Obama. “People like him and they relate to him,” Mr. DeWine said of Mr. Santorum in a telephone interview. “They think he’s real and they think he’s human.” The switch was the latest blow to Mr. Romney’s efforts to beat back Mr. Santorum, especially in the Midwest. Mr. Santorum dominated recent Republican contests in Minnesota, Colorado and Missouri and leads Mr. Romney in new polls of likely Republican voters in both Michigan, which holds its primary in 10 days, and Ohio, which follows a week later. Mr. Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, was seen by some as the front-runner after his Jan. 31 victory in Florida’s primary. But a defeat in Ohio and Michigan could devastate the perception his campaign has sought to create that he is the most electable candidate. As the day wore on, there were even conflicting accounts over who called whom — or did not. Mr. DeWine made the case on Friday that Mr. Obama might not be beatable if Mr. Romney was the nominee. “I bought into the argument that he was the best candidate to win in the fall for all the reasons that were given,” Mr. DeWine said in the interview, referring to Mr. Romney. He added: “He’s just not connecting. I don’t know what it is, but I can tell you from real people I’m talking to, it ain’t getting any better.” He now believes Mr. Santorum “has by far the best chance of being elected president and beating Barack Obama, and Romney simply is not likely to win in the fall.” It is the third presidential endorsement this election season for Mr. DeWine. He backed Tim Pawlenty, the former Minnesota governor, and then Mr. Romney after Mr. Pawlenty quit the race. But Mr. DeWine emphasized that he had long had an affinity for Mr. Santorum — the two served together for 12 years in Washington as senators from neighboring states — and he would have supported Mr. Santorum earlier but felt that he would not make it very far. “I didn’t think he could win,” Mr. DeWine said of Mr. Santorum. “He was at 2 percent in the polls. But he’s run a good campaign.” It remains to be seen how much the switch will help. Mr. Romney still has many endorsements from influential Ohio Republicans, including Senator Rob Portman and George Voinovich, a former Ohio senator and governor. Michigan’s Republican governor, Rick Snyder, also endorsed Mr. Romney this week. In a conference call with reporters on Friday, John H. Sununu, a former governor of New Hampshire and a Romney supporter, said Mr. DeWine was lashing out against Mr. Romney because of an advertisement from a pro-Romney “super PAC” that attacked Mr. Santorum for his vote to restore voting rights of felons who had completed their sentences. Mr. DeWine, Mr. Sununu noted, was one of only two other Republican senators who had joined him in that vote. Mr. DeWine disputed that in an interview Friday. “It’s ridiculous,” he said. “I never saw the ad.” Asked about reports that he did not call Mr. Romney before changing his mind, Mr. DeWine said: “Look, I’ve never gotten a call from the governor since I endorsed him; I never got a call from the governor, ever.” But, he added, “that’s not why I made the decision — this is too important a decision to make to be based on who calls me or who meets with me.” According to two Republicans with knowledge of the situation, Mr. Romney’s camp made no effort to reach out to Mr. DeWine or to make him feel like he was part of the campaign effort. Mr. DeWine endorsed Mr. Romney in October. According to one of the Republicans, before he made that endorsement, Mr. DeWine contacted the Romney campaign requesting a meeting with the governor, who was in the state. But he was not accommodated. AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions