https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/04/us/politics/justin-amash-trump.html
Justin Amash, a Trump Critic on the Right, Leaves the G.O.P. - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics|Justin Amash, a Trump Critic on the Right, Leaves the G.O.P. https://nyti.ms/2KY79Rh AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Justin Amash, a Trump Critic on the Right, Leaves the G.O.P. Mr. Amash, a libertarian representative from Michigan, has faced fierce attacks from President Trump since becoming the first Republican in Congress to call for impeachment. Representative Justin Amash wrote in an op-ed essay, “The two-party system has evolved into an existential threat to American principles and institutions.”Credit...Bill Pugliano/Getty Images By Karen Zraick July 4, 2019 Representative Justin Amash of Michigan, the only sitting Republican member of Congress to support impeaching President Trump, announced on Thursday that he was leaving the party after facing fierce attacks from the president and fellow Republicans. In an op-ed essay in The Washington Post that did not mention Mr. Trump by name, Mr. Amash wrote: “I’ve become disenchanted with party politics and frightened by what I see from it. The two-party system has evolved into an existential threat to American principles and institutions.” Three hours after the essay was published, Mr. Trump responded with a personal attack against Mr. Amash, calling him “one of the dumbest and most disloyal men in Congress.” Great news for the Republican Party as one of the dumbest & most disloyal men in Congress is “quitting” the Party. No Collusion, No Obstruction! Knew he couldn’t get the nomination to run again in the Great State of Michigan. Already being challenged for his seat. A total loser! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 4, 2019 Mr. Amash, 39, is known as a libertarian with a contrarian streak and has been one of Mr. Trump’s staunchest critics on the right. He has even considered a run against him in the 2020 election. Mr. Amash’s move on Thursday makes him the only independent member of the House, which has 235 Democrats and, now, 197 Republicans. In May, he became the first — and so far the only — sitting Republican member of Congress to join Democrats in saying that the president had committed offenses that rose to the level of impeachment. That assertion was based on his reading of the redacted report by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, which was released in April. In a series of tweets, Mr. Amash accused Attorney General William P. Barr of deliberately misrepresenting the report’s findings in his summary. Mr. Amash argued that the report had provided multiple examples of conduct that could be labeled obstruction of justice. The president immediately struck back, calling Mr. Amash a “loser” and reinforcing the congressman’s isolation within the Republican Party. A conservative state representative in Michigan, Jim Lower, and a National Guard veteran, Tom Norton, quickly suggested that they might mount primary challenges if Mr. Amash runs for a sixth term next year. In his essay, published on the morning of Independence Day, Mr. Amash wrote that his father, a Palestinian refugee who moved to the United States at 16, had instilled in him the belief that America is a land of opportunity. Mr. Amash quoted George Washington on the dangers of partisanship and strongly criticized the two-party system. “Modern politics is trapped in a partisan death spiral, but there is an escape,” he wrote. He called for Americans to join him “in rejecting the partisan loyalties and rhetoric that divide and dehumanize us.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions