https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/29/us/politics/hillary-clinton-joe-biden.html#site-index
On Politics: Another Split-Screen Endorsement - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics|On Politics: Another Split-Screen Endorsement https://nyti.ms/3bQR75u The Coronavirus Outbreak debugid:204 • Latest Updates Maps and Tracker New Symptom List Markets Life at Home Newsletter AdvertisementContinue reading the main story On Politics: Another Split-Screen Endorsement By Giovanni Russonello April 29, 2020, 7:04 a.m. ET Good morning and welcome to On Politics, a daily political analysis of the 2020 elections based on reporting by New York Times journalists. Image Where things stand Hillary Clinton mostly sat out the primary campaign, dipping back in momentarily to give interviews around the January release of a Hulu documentary series about her life, and to toss a few jabs at Bernie Sanders. But on Tuesday she returned to center stage to endorse Joe Biden in what is quickly becoming a genre unto itself: the split-screen endorsement video. She and Biden spoke for 50 minutes about women’s issues during the coronavirus pandemic. (Neither mentioned the fact that Biden is facing an increasingly high-profile allegation of sexual assault, which he has denied.) The virus, Clinton said, “is having a disproportionate impact on the front lines: on women working, on women caring for others, on women holding down the home as we go through this together.” She added, “Just think of what a difference it would make right now if we had a president who not only listened to the science, put fact over fiction, but brought us together.” While President Trump has appeared before news cameras almost every day throughout the pandemic, Biden hasn’t made a single major speech since last month. Only in the occasional endorsement video — which he films from a makeshift TV studio in his basement — does he outline his own proposals. Speaking to Clinton, Biden rattled off a battery of policies that he would embrace to confront the virus’s effects, including expanding programs to keep workers employed, freezing rents, halting foreclosures and making more food stamps available. As in other recent conversations, Biden made a point of saying that he didn’t just want to return to a pre-virus, pre-Trump status quo. “While we need to do all we can to help women and families get through this crisis, when we get to the other side,” he said, “we can’t just build back to where we were before. We have to build a much more inclusive, much more equitable middle class and an economy that everybody, everybody, gets a fair shot at.” The Senate is always a glacial body, but Democrats in the minority are getting impatient for more action on virus relief. They’d like to conduct some oversight on the officials in charge of the crisis response, too. Chuck Schumer, the minority leader, and his Democratic colleagues said so in a letter they sent on Tuesday to Mitch McConnell, the majority leader. The letter noted that McConnell had not put any virus-related oversight hearings on the Senate calendar, nor any “legislative or committee business related to the Covid-19 public health and economic emergencies.” Instead, after passing a series of relief bills, McConnell is seeking to return the Senate to one of his favorite tasks: confirming conservative judicial appointees. One of those is McConnell’s own 38-year-old protégé, Justin Walker, whom Trump recently nominated for a seat on the powerful District of Columbia Court of Appeals. In the presidential race alone, roughly $100 million has already been spent on Facebook ads. And with people largely stuck inside — and often glued to their screens — online advertising has never been more important. This cycle, as Nick Corasaniti reports, Democrats have a crucial ally in the digital fight: James Barnes, who as a former Facebook employee was embedded in the Trump team in 2016, and was later named an “M.V.P.” of the campaign. He came up with a program titled “Barometer” that allows campaigns to test their messages with Facebook users in real time by distributing surveys. And he has been putting it to use in coordination with Pacronym, a Democratic super PAC. Photo of the day President Trump met with Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida and Dr. Deborah Birx, the White House coronavirus response coordinator, in the Oval Office on Tuesday. Justin Amash, the anti-Trump ex-Republican, is mulling a Libertarian presidential run. In the lead-up to the 2016 presidential election, with many conservative voters still wary of Trump’s candidacy, the Libertarian candidate Gary Johnson shot to double digits in polls as late as mid-September. Then he fizzled, winning just 3 percent of the vote as Republican voters came home to support their party’s nominee. But what would happen in 2020, after a full term of Trump in the White House, if another credible Libertarian candidate ran against him? We may soon find out. Latest Updates: Coronavirus Outbreak in the U.S. 100 days, one million confirmed infections, and a country transformed. New C.D.C. statistics reveal more about the true death toll. A report on the U.S. economy is going to be bad, and the Fed is weighing further interventions. See more updates Updated 1m ago More live coverage: Global Markets New York Justin Amash, a 40-year-old congressman from Michigan who switched his registration from Republican to independent last year out of unease with Trump’s takeover of the Republican Party, announced last night on Twitter that he had formed an exploratory committee toward a run for president as a Libertarian. On a new website, “Amash for America,” his language was bold: “We’re ready” was emblazoned across the home page. Amash, a five-term congressman, would need to win the Libertarian Party’s nomination at its convention, which is scheduled to take place next month in Austin, Texas — though those plans have been thrown into jeopardy by the pandemic. Nicholas Sarwark, the national chairman of the Libertarian Party, told our reporters Jonathan Martin and Alexander Burns that he thought Amash would be a formidable contender for the nod. Trump has further consolidated his support among Republicans since taking office; he now enjoys a 93 percent nationwide approval rating among members of his party, according to Gallup. But his approval rating among conservatives is noticeably lower — 77 percent — and among independents it is a dismal 39 percent. Those are key demographics from which Amash would be looking to pick up support. Should a Libertarian candidate peel off a significant number of votes, it is not necessarily clear whether it would do more to help the president, by siphoning anti-Trump conservatives away from Biden, or if it would hurt Trump by absorbing voters who might otherwise have reluctantly supported him. The results of the 2016 election do little to clear this up. In exit polls, Democrats and Republicans were about equally likely to say they had refrained from voting for either Clinton or Trump. Most third-party supporters identified as independents. In Michigan, Amash’s home state, where Trump’s narrow victory helped send him to the White House, Johnson picked up 3.6 percent of the vote. If even one in 10 of Johnson’s supporters in Michigan had voted for Clinton instead, she would have won the state. On Politics is also available as a newsletter. Sign up here to get it delivered to your inbox. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com. The Coronavirus Outbreak Frequently Asked Questions and Advice Updated April 11, 2020 When will this end? This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days. How can I help? The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.) What should I do if I feel sick? If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. Should I wear a mask? The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. How do I get tested? If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. How does coronavirus spread? It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face. Is there a vaccine yet? No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away. What makes this outbreak so different? Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard. What if somebody in my family gets sick? If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently. Should I stock up on groceries? Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home. Can I go to the park? Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea. Should I pull my money from the markets? That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years. What should I do with my 401(k)? Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions