https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/27/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-briefings.html
Trump's Coronavirus Briefings 'Not Worth the Time.' But He Couldn't Stay Away - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics|Briefings Were ‘Not Worth the Time,’ Trump Said. But He Couldn’t Stay Away. https://nyti.ms/2W4vOXx The Coronavirus Outbreak debugid:204 • Latest Updates Maps and Tracker New Symptom List • Markets Life at Home Newsletter AdvertisementContinue reading the main story White House Memo Briefings Were ‘Not Worth the Time,’ Trump Said. But He Couldn’t Stay Away. Just hours after his own White House officially canceled his planned appearance on Monday, the lure of the cameras in the Rose Garden proved too hard to resist. President Trump in a meeting with industry executives about the coronavirus response at the White House on Monday. He then had them speak at his news briefing.Credit...Doug Mills/The New York Times By Peter Baker April 27, 2020 WASHINGTON — To the surprise of exactly no one, President Trump resumed his daily coronavirus news briefings on Monday, just two days after tweeting that they were “not worth the time & effort” and just hours after his own White House officially canceled the planned appearance. The lure of cameras in the Rose Garden proved too hard to resist. For a president who relishes the spotlight and spends hours a day watching television, the idea of passing on his daily chance to get his message out turned out to be untenable despite his anger over his coverage. And so he was back, defending his handling of the pandemic and promising to reopen the country soon. The on-again, off-again, on-again session was on the more sedate side of the spectrum seen in the six weeks since the president began commanding a slice of the homebound nation’s viewing attention almost every day right before family quarantine dinners. But even as he talked about the crisis that has killed almost as many Americans as the Vietnam War, Mr. Trump veered off to attack “Sleepy Joe” Biden, complain about being persecuted and make some of his favorite false claims. He promoted his administration’s record on responding to the pandemic despite widespread criticism, blamed China for not stopping the virus in the first place, suggested he was open to suing states for imposing restrictions embraced by his own public health advisers and predicted an “incredible fourth quarter” of economic growth and recovery from the collapse of the economy. He largely avoided the sort of anger he had displayed in recent days, even for questions that would typically provoke a sharp response. Asked if a president should be re-elected after so many Americans died in a matter of weeks, he argued that he had prevented it from being worse. “Yeah, we’ve lost a lot of people,” he said. “But if you look at what original projections were, 2.2 million, we’re probably heading to 60,000, 70,000. It’s far too many. One person is too many for this. And I think we’ve made a lot of really good decisions.” Pressed on his offhand suggestion last week that experts should study whether ingesting or injecting disinfectant could counter the virus, a comment that set off warnings by health agencies that doing so could be fatal, the president brushed it off quickly and moved on. Latest Updates: Coronavirus Outbreak in the U.S. 100 days, one million confirmed infections, and a country transformed. New C.D.C. statistics reveal more about the true toll. A report on the U.S. economy is going to be bad, and the Fed is weighing further interventions. See more updates Updated 28m ago More live coverage: Global Markets New York “I can’t imagine why,” he said when told that some Americans might try it, putting their lives at risk. Asked if he took responsibility, he said, “No, I don’t.” The furor over the disinfectant comments, which the president later claimed were sarcastic, prompted deep anger last week. Mr. Trump then spent much of the weekend railing on Twitter about the news media, including The Washington Post, Wall Street Journal, New York Times and even the usually friendly Fox News when it proved insufficiently loyal by airing even a bit of criticism. He opted not to hold briefings on Saturday or Sunday even though for the most part he has been doing them seven days a week. “There has never been, in the history of our Country, a more vicious or hostile Lamestream Media than there is right now, even in the midst of a National Emergency, the Invisible Enemy!” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter on Monday morning. “FAKE NEWS, THE ENEMY OF THE PEOPLE!” he added. The first schedule issued by the White House for Monday listed a briefing for 5 p.m., but by late morning it was canceled. Kayleigh McEnany, the newly appointed White House press secretary, told reporters that briefings would probably resume later in the week, perhaps in a different format. But Mr. Trump hates being seen as managed by his staff, and once he saw some of the television coverage reporting that his own aides thought he should hold fewer briefings, he decided to host one on Monday anyway. The reversal, in less than two hours, was framed as an announcement of new testing guidance that was actually slated to be put out by lower-level officials. But Mr. Trump decided to bring along corporate executives he had met with just beforehand and have them take the microphone one after another to highlight their efforts to combat the virus. Some of his allies had been relieved when he passed on any appearances over the weekend and initially canceled Monday’s briefing, hoping that he was coming around to their view that a more disciplined approach would be better. Other Republicans had urged the White House not to have the president brief every day and to limit those sessions he did to more like 30 minutes, which would hone the message and limit the off-script collateral damage. “Standing at that podium for more than 30 minutes is kind of like being at a bar after 2 a.m.,” said Ari Fleischer, who was a White House press secretary under President George W. Bush. “All the good stuff has probably happened by now and the only thing left is going to be bad. So get out of the bar — or get off the podium after about 30 minutes.” Mr. Trump ended up spending nearly twice that in the Rose Garden on Monday, but he gave the lectern over to Vice President Mike Pence, Dr. Deborah L. Birx, his pandemic coordinator, and the executives enough that his own time was limited, to the relief of some of his aides and allies. “There seems to be a direct correlation between how completely bonkers the daily Trump briefing had become and the piling up of devastating facts on both the death toll and the job losses,” said Jennifer Psaki, who was White House communications director under President Barack Obama. “So it is hard to see how continuing this briefing was to his own advantage.” While not at his feistiest, Mr. Trump still flashed some of his usual bombast, claiming as he often does that until the virus hit he had built “the greatest economy in the history of the world” and “you would have been at war with North Korea if I wasn’t president,” two assertions belied by history and statistics. He rejected a fear voiced by former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., his putative Democratic challenger, that the president might seek to delay the November election, citing the pandemic. “I never even thought of changing the date of the election,” Mr. Trump said. But he said he would be open to joining lawsuits against states that have imposed social distancing restrictions to combat the virus deemed too strict, as Attorney General William P. Barr has suggested. “It would depend on the state; it would depend on the circumstances of the state,” Mr. Trump said. “The attorney general doesn’t want to have rights taken away. There are some people, they’re not allowed to open up a store. They’re going to lose their livelihood.” He made no effort to reconcile that with his own administration’s guidelines urging that most stores be kept closed or with his criticism of Gov. Brian Kemp of Georgia for opening some businesses in his state too quickly. At the same time, Mr. Trump complained about the prosecution of Michael T. Flynn, his former national security adviser who pleaded guilty to lying to authorities, and quickly equated it to his own time under investigation. “What happened to your president of the United States should never again be allowed to happen,” he said. After 55 minutes it was over. And certainly not for the last time. Maggie Haberman contributed reporting from New York. The Coronavirus Outbreak Frequently Asked Questions and Advice Updated April 11, 2020 When will this end? This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days. How can I help? The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.) What should I do if I feel sick? If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. Should I wear a mask? The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. How do I get tested? If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. How does coronavirus spread? It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face. Is there a vaccine yet? No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away. What makes this outbreak so different? Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard. What if somebody in my family gets sick? If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently. Should I stock up on groceries? Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home. Can I go to the park? Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea. Should I pull my money from the markets? That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years. What should I do with my 401(k)? Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions