https://www.nytimes.com/spotlight/at-home?action=click&pgtype=Article&state=default&module=styln-coronavirus-newyork&region=TOP_BANNER&context=storyline_menu
At Home - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index At Home Today’s Paper AdvertisementContinue reading the main story At Home At Home Welcome to midweek! The days at home can blend, so maybe mark this one with something new. Start learning a new language. Try a new dance move (using only your hands). Shop for food in your own garden. Or maybe you’re an opera lover and don’t know it yet. Even if you don’t have time for a new endeavor, we’re here to help you find small ways to take in the beauty and joy of the world. Here are some of our best suggestions to live life At Home today. — Minju Pak Watch If you need to supplement a diet of mindless movie viewing with some tales of resilience, Joshua Rothkopf has suggestions. Missing live theater? Attend a Zoom family drama by the playwright Richard Nelson. Cook Are you trading recipes and trying new ones? Maybe it’s time to compile them with your friends into a community cookbook. Now that it seems we’re feeding our sourdough starters every day, we have eight delicious ways to use the excess. Do If you’re sick of video conferencing by now, here’s a letter of recommendation for the good old fashioned phone call. For those of us who still need to show our faces, Tim McKeough has tips to organize those bookshelves now that they are a backdrop. And if you’re looking for advice on parenting or cooking, yearning to hear a talk about politics or just want to listen to New Yorkers do their accents, our reporters and critics have a bunch of live events coming. Letter of Recommendation Photo CreditIllustration by Danielle Morgan What Phone Calls Have Given Me That Video Chat Can’t Just as I’m imagining their environment, their clothes, their gestures, they’re imagining me. We’re making a cocoon where only the two of us live. By Jessica Gross Photo CreditJuan Arredondo for The New York Times Let the Sunshine In Sunlight is not a cure for coronavirus, but it does have other benefits for mind and body. By Richard Schiffman Photo Credit 5 Minutes That Will Make You Love Opera We asked Patti Smith, John Turturro, Renée Fleming and others to pick the music that moves them. Listen to their choices. AdvertisementContinue reading the main story How to Deal Photo CreditMargaret Roach Shopping Your Garden Why make a trip to the nursery when you may have everything you need in your own backyard? By Margaret Roach Photo CreditLittle Dreams Here’s What to Trim (and What Not to Touch) From Your Budget Right Now Your finances may be tight, but there are helpful changes you can make during the coronavirus lockdown. By Emma Pattee Photo CreditElenia Beretta Want to Learn French? Italian? Russian? There’s No Time Like the Present We may not be thrilled with our housebound conditions, but what better opportunity for learning a foreign language? By Stephanie Rosenbloom Photo CreditShade Degges Finally There’s Time to Read (or at Least Organize Your Books) Books tell a story about who you are. Here’s how to make it an interesting one. By Tim McKeough What to Eat Photo CreditErin Jeanne McDowell 8 Delicious Ways to Use Your Sourdough Discard You finally got that starter going. Now, use the discard in delicious baked goods while eliminating waste. By Erin Jeanne McDowell Photo CreditJohnny Miller for The New York Times. Food Stylist: Susan Spungen. Mexican Fare, Available for Takeout and Delivery Rosa Mexicano, Claro, La Morada and other restaurants across the city are offering their specialties — and margaritas in bulk. By Florence Fabricant Photo CreditMatthew Freire for The New York Times The Community Cookbook Is Reborn for a Time of Scarcity and Sharing Cobbled-together home recipe collections were once the province of church groups and Scout troops, but now they’re uniting Americans of all stripes. By Priya Krishna Photo CreditLucy Johnston A Mother, a Pandemic and Scorched Rice “You have an American amount of rice,” my mother told me as news of the coronavirus intensified. “Go get the biggest bag you can find.” By Lynn Jones Johnston AdvertisementContinue reading the main story What to Watch Photo CreditColleen Hayes/NBC The 50 Best TV Shows on Netflix Right Now We’ve plucked out the 50 best TV series currently streaming on Netflix in the United States. Take a look. By Noel Murray Photo CreditJustin J Wee for The New York Times Taylor Mac’s Week: Watching Bond Movies on VHS and Discovering the Banjo The playwright and performance artist is working on two new productions from the Berkshires, and is enjoying virtual cocktail hours. By Kwame Opam Photo CreditEnda Bowe/Hulu ‘Normal People’ Review: Their Love Will Tear You Apart Sally Rooney’s novel comes to Hulu as a sad, sexy, class- and power-conscious coming-of-age story. By James Poniewozik Photo CreditTristan Aurouet Now Playing: The South by Southwest Film Festival, Sort of Two critics look at highlights from the SXSW 2020 Film Festival Collection, available to view on Amazon Prime Video. By Amy Nicholson and Jason Bailey Pass the Time Photo CreditKeone Madrid Feeling Down? Try a Good Vibes Dance for Your Hands After their own battle with the coronavirus, the hip-hop choreographers Keone and Mari Madrid propose a few simple gestures that you can do anywhere. By Brian Seibert Photo CreditLaurent Cilluffo Live Events: Learn How to Tawk Like a New Yawker and More Vote for the ultimate New York accent. Cook creatively with what’s already in your kitchen. Here’s how to join our virtual events this week. By Jennifer Harlan Photo CreditCourtesy of the artist and Empty Gallery The Japanese Artist Turning Fruits and Vegetables Into Sculpture Ikebana’s most irreverent practitioner, the 80-year-old Kosen Ohtsubo, finds beauty in the banal. By Motoko Rich Photo CreditNaomi Fraser ‘The World Goes Away’ and Other Lessons From Online Acting Class Remote learning may not be ideal, but Zoom encourages acting students to be more nuanced, more private and more intimate. By Elisabeth Vincentelli AdvertisementContinue reading the main story What to Do With the Kids Photo CreditMichelle Mildenberg Prenatal Care May Look Very Different After Coronavirus The shift from in-person visits to telehealth appointments could be here to stay. By Emily Goligoski Photo Credit Only Children Are Not Doomed Some parents think siblings make kids happier. Others say singletons are better off. Emily Oster looks at what the data says. By Emily Oster Photo CreditMONIKA AICHELE Rule No. 1 for Parents Doing ‘Crisis Schooling’: Take a Deep Breath It’s not like you have to worry about teaching calculus or advanced biology. Not yet, at least. By Melinda Wenner Moyer Photo CreditLACMA Class Is in Session Everywhere Now Around the country, museums, libraries, zoos and even federal agencies are offering lessons, activities and fun for learners of all ages. By Ted Loos What to Read Photo CreditChloe Cushman This Is What It’s Like to Be Homeless in New York City A journalist introduces readers to a new mother struggling mightily, against all odds, to find a permanent place to live. By Alex Kotlowitz Photo Credit John Grisham Returns to Camino Island, This Time in Hurricane Season In “Camino Winds,” a bookstore owner and two other characters team up to solve a murder and the mystery behind it. By Janet Maslin Photo CreditGetty Images Sexting, Consent and the ‘Quaranteen’ Guidance for parents on talking to teens about consent while on lockdown. Hint: Use French fries as an example. By Shafia Zaloom Photo CreditAssociation Élisabeth Lacoin Coming Soon: New Fiction From Simone de Beauvoir “The Inseparables,” a novel Beauvoir abandoned in 1954, tells the story of a doomed friendship based on one from her own childhood. By Alexandra Alter and Laura Cappelle AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Latest Search Search Clear this text input Critic’s Notebook The Hidden Feats That Built New York’s Towering Skyscrapers The ingenuity of engineers helped build landmarks like Black Rock and the new supertalls. Our critic takes a virtual tour with Guy Nordenson. By Michael Kimmelman Wednesday’s Livestreaming Events: A Virtual Apple Family Play, Offset and Tones and I Appointment viewing is back. Find out what online events to look for today, and when to tune in. By Maya Salam The Latest Indulgence in Hip-Hop Videos? Coronavirus Protection The pandemic has engendered new ways to flex. By Jon Caramanica Now Playing: The South by Southwest Film Festival, Sort of Two critics look at highlights from the SXSW 2020 Film Festival Collection, available to view on Amazon Prime Video. By Amy Nicholson and Jason Bailey ‘The World Goes Away’ and Other Lessons From Online Acting Class Remote learning may not be ideal, but Zoom encourages acting students to be more nuanced, more private and more intimate. By Elisabeth Vincentelli Making Theater Essential, Digitally The Homebound Project convenes 50 actors and playwrights to raise money for a project combating childhood hunger. By Devi Lockwood Want to Learn French? Italian? Russian? There’s No Time Like the Present We may not be thrilled with our housebound conditions, but what better opportunity for learning a foreign language? By Stephanie Rosenbloom Tuesday’s Livestreaming Events: ‘Melrose Place’ Reunion and Story Time With Tom Hardy Appointment viewing is back. Find out what online events to look for today, and when to tune in. By Maya Salam A Letter From the Contents of My Bra Drawer It’s been weeks since we’ve seen each other. By Elizabeth Yuko A Cast Album I Love: ‘The Secret Garden’ We continue our cast album series with more recommendations for wonderful musicals to listen to at home. By Alexis Soloski Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions