https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/27/us/politics/who-is-andrew-yang.html
Andrew Yang on Universal Basic Income - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics|Andrew Yang on Universal Basic Income https://nyti.ms/2FD0yaV Latest Results National Map Delegate Count Election Calendar Who’s Running AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Andrew Yang on Universal Basic Income He’s an entrepreneur and former tech executive who wants to give Americans $12,000 a year. Here’s some background. Andrew Yang, a former tech executive.Credit...The New York Times By Matt Stevens June 27, 2019 Andrew Yang, 44, is participating on Thursday in the second Democratic presidential primary debate. Mr. Yang is a political neophyte and former tech executive with a devoted internet following known as the “Yang Gang.” As he has traveled across the country, running what he has called the “nerdiest presidential campaign in history,” he has unabashedly embraced his Taiwanese-American background. He believes that one way to help soften the impact of automation is through a universal basic income, which he has made a central part of his campaign. Mr. Yang has promised to give Americans $12,000 a year. Here’s a deeper look at his proposal. The context Mr. Yang wants the federal government to give each American adult a monthly check for $1,000, regardless of income or employment status. He has branded the payments the “Freedom Dividend.” Medicare and Medicaid would be unaffected under Mr. Yang’s plan, but people receiving government benefits such as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program could choose to continue receiving those benefits, or take the $12,000 yearly payment instead. Live Analysis: The Democratic Debates Follow along as our reporters analyze tonight’s debate in real time. More 2020 Coverage Debate guide » Who's running? » Who's leading the race? » How he uses it As a relatively obscure candidate, Mr. Yang often acknowledges that the only thing people may know about him — if they have heard of him at all — is that he as “an Asian man running for president who wants to give everyone $1,000 a month.” His fans, known as the “Yang Gang,” have helped boost Mr. Yang’s popularity by turning him into a series of internet memes, which mostly revolve around free money. Obstacles Giving everyone $1,000 a month would come with a hefty price tag. Mr. Yang suggests paying for it in part by imposing a Value-Added Tax of 10 percent. But he would need the help of Congress to get any of this done. And although Mr. Yang thinks some Republicans would eventually buy into universal basic income, it's a near certainty that most would balk. Our 2020 Election Guide Updated April 28, 2020 The Latest Hillary Clinton, during a virtual town hall-style event about the impact of the coronavirus on women, announced her support for Joseph R. Biden Jr. Coronavirus Election Calendar As the pandemic upends the 2020 campaign, several states have postponed or canceled their primary elections. We’re keeping track here. Keep Up With Our Coverage Get an email recapping the day’s news Download our mobile app on iOS and Android and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts Listen to our podcast, The Field, on Apple Podcasts and Spotify AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions