https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/23/us/chinese-coronavirus-racist-attacks.html
Spit On, Yelled At, Attacked: Chinese-Americans Fear for Their Safety - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index U.S. Today’s Paper U.S.|Spit On, Yelled At, Attacked: Chinese-Americans Fear for Their Safety https://nyti.ms/33D3zTi The Coronavirus Outbreak debugid:204 • Latest Updates Maps and Tracker New Symptom List • Markets Life at Home Newsletter AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Spit On, Yelled At, Attacked: Chinese-Americans Fear for Their Safety As bigots blame them for the coronavirus and President Trump labels it the “Chinese virus,” many Chinese-Americans say they are terrified of what could come next. Yuanyuan Zhu said a middle-aged man started shouting at her while she was walking to her gym and then spat at her as she waited to cross the street.Credit...Cayce Clifford for The New York Times By Sabrina Tavernise and Richard A. Oppel Jr. Published March 23, 2020Updated April 10, 2020 Leer en español阅读简体中文版閱讀繁體中文版 WASHINGTON — Yuanyuan Zhu was walking to her gym in San Francisco on March 9, thinking the workout could be her last for a while, when she noticed that a man was shouting at her. He was yelling an expletive about China. Then a bus passed, she recalled, and he screamed after it, “Run them over.” She tried to keep her distance, but when the light changed, she was stuck waiting with him at the crosswalk. She could feel him staring at her. And then, suddenly, she felt it: his saliva hitting her face and her favorite sweater. In shock, Ms. Zhu, who is 26 and moved to the United States from China five years ago, hurried the rest of the way to the gym. She found a corner where no one could see her, and she cried quietly. “That person didn’t look strange or angry or anything, you know?” she said of her tormentor. “He just looked like a normal person.” As the coronavirus upends American life, Chinese-Americans face a double threat. Not only are they grappling like everyone else with how to avoid the virus itself, they are also contending with growing racism in the form of verbal and physical attacks. Other Asian-Americans — with families from Korea, Vietnam, the Philippines, Myanmar and other places — are facing threats, too, lumped together with Chinese-Americans by a bigotry that does not know the difference. In interviews over the past week, nearly two dozen Asian-Americans across the country said they were afraid — to go grocery shopping, to travel alone on subways or buses, to let their children go outside. Many described being yelled at in public — a sudden spasm of hate that is reminiscent of the kind faced by American Muslims, Arabs and South Asians in the United States after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. But unlike in 2001, when President George W. Bush urged tolerance of American Muslims, this time President Trump is using language that Asian-Americans say is inciting racist attacks. Mr. Trump and his Republican allies are intent on calling the coronavirus “the Chinese virus,” rejecting the World Health Organization’s guidance against using geographic locations when naming illnesses, since past names have provoked a backlash. Mr. Trump told reporters on Tuesday that he was calling the virus “Chinese” to combat a disinformation campaign by Beijing officials saying the American military was the source of the outbreak. He dismissed concerns that his language would lead to any harm. On Monday evening, Mr. Trump tweeted, “It is very important that we totally protect our Asian American community in the United States.” He added they should not be blamed for the pandemic, though he did not comment on his use of the phrase “Chinese virus.” “If they keep using these terms, the kids are going to pick it up,” said Tony Du, an epidemiologist in Howard County, Md., who fears for his son, Larry. “They are going to call my 8-year-old son a Chinese virus. It’s serious.” Mr. Du said he posted on Facebook that “this is the darkest day in my 20-plus years of life in the United States,” referring to Mr. Trump’s doubling down on use of the term. Latest Updates: Coronavirus Outbreak in the U.S. 100 days, one million confirmed infections, and a country transformed. New C.D.C. statistics reveal more about the true toll. A report on the U.S. economy is going to be bad, and the Fed is weighing further interventions. See more updates Updated 18m ago More live coverage: Global Markets New York While no firm numbers exist yet, Asian-American advocacy groups and researchers say there has been a surge of verbal and physical assaults reported in newspapers and to tip lines. San Francisco State University found a 50 percent rise in the number of news articles related to the coronavirus and anti-Asian discrimination between Feb. 9 and March 7. The lead researcher, Russell Jeung, a professor of Asian-American studies, said the figures represented “just the tip of the iceberg” because only the most egregious cases would be likely to be reported by the media. Professor Jeung has helped set up a website in six Asian languages to gather firsthand accounts; some 150 cases have been reported on the site since it was started last Thursday. Benny Luo, founder and chief executive of NextShark, a website focused on Asian-American news, said the site used to get a few tips a day. Now it is dozens. “We’ve never received this many news tips about racism against Asians,” he said. “It’s crazy. My staff is pulling double duty just to keep up.” He said he was hiring two more people to help. No one is immune to being targeted. Dr. Edward Chew, the head of the emergency department at a large Manhattan hospital, is on the front lines of fighting the coronavirus. He said that over the past few weeks, he had noticed people trying to cover their nose and mouth with their shirts when they are near him. Dr. Chew has been using his free time to buy protective gear, like goggles and face shields, for his staff in case his hospital runs out. On Wednesday night at a Home Depot, with his cart filled with face shields, masks and Tyvek suits, he said he was harassed by three men in their 20s, who then followed him into the parking lot. “I heard of other Asians being assaulted over this, but when you are actually ridiculed yourself, you really feel it,” he said the following day. A writer for The New Yorker, Jiayang Fan, said she was taking out her trash last week when a man walking by began cursing at her for being Chinese. “I’ve never felt like this in my 27 yrs in this country,” she wrote on Twitter on Tuesday. “I’ve never felt afraid to leave my home to take out the trash bc of my face.” Attacks have also gotten physical. In the San Fernando Valley in California, a 16-year old Asian-American boy was attacked in school by bullies who accused him of having the coronavirus. He was sent to the emergency room to see whether he had a concussion. In New York City a woman wearing a mask was kicked and punched in a Manhattan subway station, and a man in Queens was followed to a bus stop, shouted at and then hit over the head in front of his 10-year-old son. People have rushed to protect themselves. One man started a buddy-system Facebook group for Asians in New York who are afraid to take the subway by themselves. Gun shop owners in the Washington, D.C., area said they were seeing a surge of first-time Chinese-American buyers. At Engage Armament in Rockville, Md., most gun buyers in the first two weeks of March have been Chinese-American or Chinese, according to the owner, Andy Raymond. More than a fifth of Rockville’s residents are of Asian ethnicity, and Mr. Raymond said buyers from Korean and Vietnamese backgrounds were not unusual. But Mr. Raymond said he was stunned by the flow of Chinese customers — in particular green-card holders from mainland China — that began earlier this month, a group that rarely patronized his shop before. “It was just nonstop, something I’ve never seen,” he said. Mr. Raymond said that few of the Asian customers wanted to talk about why they were there, but when one of his employees asked a woman about it, she teared up. “To protect my daughter,” she replied. For recent immigrants like Mr. Du who are in close touch with friends and family in China, the virus has been a screaming danger for weeks that most Americans seemed oblivious to. Mr. Du is trying to remain hopeful. He spends his weekends training to become a volunteer with Maryland’s emergency medical workers. He is part of a group of Chinese-American scientists who organized a GoFundMe account to raise money for protective gear for hospital workers in the area. In three days, they raised more than $55,000, nearly all in small donations. But he said he was afraid of the chaos that could be unleashed if the United States death toll rises significantly. Already a gun owner, Mr. Du, 48, said he was in the process of buying an AR-15-style rifle. “Katrina is not far away,” he said, alluding to the unrest in New Orleans following Hurricane Katrina in 2005. “And when all these bad things come, I am a minority. People can see my face is Chinese, clearly. My son, when he goes out, they will know his parents are Chinese.” Listen to ‘The Daily’: ‘I Become a Person of Suspicion’As bigots blame them for the coronavirus and President Trump labels it the “Chinese virus,” some Asian-Americans now live in fear for their safety. transcript Back to The Daily bars 0:00/37:36 -37:36 transcript Listen to ‘The Daily’: ‘I Become a Person of Suspicion’ Hosted by Michael Barbaro; produced by Lynsea Garrison, Stella Tan and Neena Pathak; and edited by Lisa Tobin and Liz Baylen As bigots blame them for the coronavirus and President Trump labels it the “Chinese virus,” some Asian-Americans now live in fear for their safety. michael barbaro Jiayang, do you remember the first time that you started thinking about the backlash in this country against Asian-Americans in response to the coronavirus? jiayang fan Yeah, I mean, around, I guess, this is the beginning of March. I had seen on Instagram a friend and a fellow writer documenting an incident in Manhattan, where — I think he is Korean-American, and he was told by a stranger to get away. But I remember reading about that incident and thinking, “yeah, I mean, that’s really terrible that this has happened,” but wondering, is this a singular incident, or is there a trend? As a journalist and perhaps by my own personal temperament, I’m pretty cautious. I don’t like to make sensational generalizations that go well on a headline. I feel like I need very convincing proof that something is happening before I call it. And especially as a Chinese-American, I wanted to make sure that I was not crying racism before I had the full evidence. I wonder if it’s because if I don’t make too big a deal out of it, it won’t be fully real. michael barbaro From The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” woman I get to the gate at LAX. man Home Depot. woman In an Uber Pool. man A grocery store, Wegmans. child We were walking from the gym to get in our classrooms. man I got some milk, a little pasta. Most everything’s gone. woman And at that moment, there was this guy, looked like a regular guy. He was staring at me. michael barbaro As the death toll from the coronavirus rises in the U.S., so do reports of verbal and physical attacks against Asian-Americans — woman And a couple of seats away from me, a man was seated. And presumably his wife comes back to sit down and says out loud — man “You people you, brought it. You’re sick.” woman “Fuck China.” child “China is stupid.” man “I ought to kill you. I ought to shoot you.” woman “This girl looks Chinese. She must have the virus. I can’t sit next to her.” michael barbaro — Who say that they are being blamed for the pandemic. archived recording (journalist) A person at the White House used the term “kung-flu.” My question is, do you think that’s wrong? archived recording (donald trump) Kung-flu? archived recording (journalist) Kung-flu. And do you think using the term “Chinese virus,” that puts Asian-Americans at risk, that people might target them? archived recording (donald trump) No, not at all. No, not at all. I think they probably would agree with it 100%. It comes from China. There’s nothing not to agree with. I’ll have the last question. michael barbaro Today — man When the president asked, I don’t think they would mind it being called the Chinese virus, I mind! child It did make me feel different, and didn’t really want to be Chinese because of the coronavirus. michael barbaro Jiayang Fan, a writer for The New Yorker magazine, shares her story. It’s Friday, April 10th. Jiayang, can you tell me a little bit about your childhood? Where did you grow up? jiayang fan I was born in 1984 in Chongqing, China. My mom was a doctor. My dad was a researcher. And he was one of the first batch of scholars sent to the U.S. to bring Western knowledge and technology back to China. So he leaves when I’m about two, so I have very little memory of him. But for my mom and I, life in China feels very serene and comfortable. [speaking chinese] Whatever sense I have of the outside world, the world beyond China, is very, very vague and incredibly hazy, like I’m not quite sure it exists. But I think if one place were to stand out, it would be the United States. I remember my mom and her friends talking about the show Dynasty, which did telegraph the glamor of the U.S. archived recording I like that one. It’s a rather expensive fur. I like the mink. That is mink? jiayang fan The sense that this is what an everyday Joe would inhabit. michael barbaro And this of course, is a soap opera about an incredibly wealthy oil family living in a crazy gorgeous home, and driving along oil fields. So it’s actually quite exceptional. archived recording My name happens to be Mrs. Steven Carrington. I’m not used to haggling over what suits me, or what it costs. jiayang fan Well, it was the show, and it was also at the time in China what was very popular were these calendars of American families, where every member had golden hair, sparkling blue eyes and perfect bone structure, and they were always smiling with their perfect white teeth. They always were sitting by a perfect colonial house, or just out in nature, but in front of a park that they looked like they owned. [laughter] And I remember the food that really encapsulated America to me were Cheerios. michael barbaro Cheerios? archived recording It’s the big yellow box that everyone knows. jiayang fan Yes, Cheerios. I had no idea what they tasted like, but the company did fantastic branding in China. archived recording Cheerios number one. We love it! Toasty oat goodness. jiayang fan I remember the picture of the perfect baby on these ads for Cheerios. You know, the round cheeks, the blue eyes. That baby got to have this superior breakfast food that I, in all likelihood, would never get to taste. archived recording Cheerios number one! jiayang fan So there’s me, drinking my Chinese porridge, and eating my pickled vegetables, and having fantasies about Cheerios, which I learned years later to not be very tasty at all there. They’re actually tasteless. michael barbaro To be like the definition of blandness, but in your mind, they are this superior food for this blond haired, perfect group of people. jiayang fan Yeah, for superior people, to put it bluntly. I mean, I still remember actually the first time I heard English. I think it might have been my fifth or sixth birthday, and my mom might have come back pretty recently from English language training sessions. And she just said the words “happy birthday.” That was astounding to me. It was like my mom was superwoman, that she knew how to say this language that did not sound like a language to me. “Happy birthday.” I still remember the way the syllables came out of her mouth, and the image, which was of a tsunami. There was this tidal wave of one syllable consuming the next one that, to me, was very incomprehensible. And I remember at the time thinking, “I will never learn this language. I have no hopes of ever learning this language.” Which is probably OK, because I only need one language, right? And it’s Chinese. michael barbaro Oh. [speaking chinese] jiayang fan But essentially something happens in the June of ‘89 that changes my father’s fate as well as that of my mom and I forever. archived recording (journalist) The noise of gunfire rose from all over the center of Peking. jiayang fan The Tiananmen massacre. archived recording (journalist) There’s a mood of terror in the center of the city and quiet — jiayang fan So the U.S. government immediately makes provisions for Chinese scholars, who might need to flee from China. archived recording (journalist) The demonstrators in Tiananmen Square — jiayang fan And that was when my mother and I joined my father in the U.S. [speaking chinese] michael barbaro What do you remember about first arriving in the U.S.? jiayang fan We land in J.F.K., and my father is living at the time in New Haven, Connecticut. And that drive from J.F.K. to New Haven, it is gray and drab, like tones that are not at all what I had imagined. So I keep waiting for the real America to reveal itself to me. So it is a rude awakening when my dad leads us to his second floor studio. There’s just a mattress on the floor, and I think it takes me a good minute to realize that this is my new home. And the loss of a language is pretty traumatic for me. michael barbaro How so? jiayang fan School started a few months later, and I could not understand my teachers, my classmates. And repeatedly my new American teachers ask me, why aren’t you talking more? Why aren’t you engaging? And those expectations, I think, are hard for me to fully understand. And I feel like I’m walking blind into a game, where I don’t know the rules. michael barbaro Mm-hm. jiayang fan I mean, not only do I not speak the language, I’m bringing pickled fish and rice, and that’s not sitting well with the other kids at a lunch table. All I feel is defeat. michael barbaro Hm. It sounds very lonely. jiayang fan Yeah, retrospectively, I think what made me feel most lonely was that I couldn’t share those feelings with my mother. And I think for my mother, who worked very low paying menial labor jobs in the U.S., a drastic step down from her position as a doctor in China, she must have felt as marginalized and as embarrassed by her immigrant status as I do, but in an adult way, but similarly lacking in an emotional vocabulary to express those feelings. michael barbaro What do you mean? jiayang fan Like, I remember going to the mall for the first time with my mother. And my mom’s favorite pastime was window shopping, just looking at things that she couldn’t afford. And I remember one time someone trying to hand her maybe a flyer for some store, and she said, no, thanks. But she couldn’t pronounce it correctly, so this young man said “No sex? Did you say no sex? No sex?” And I think I was like 11 or 12 at the time. I remember that my mother actually just in this embarrassed way laughed, like out of anxiety, like she wanted it to be OK. She wanted to respond in a way to indicate that she was not offended. But I remember the way that my cheek just felt hot and red, they grew, and how I felt so humiliated on my mother’s behalf. And that experience feels seared into my brain, not just because of the insult, but because my mother had to swallow her own humiliation. michael barbaro Did you understand, given your age, that this was racism? I mean, how did you process it in that moment? jiayang fan I think I turned over the incident in my mind for a long time after that. I don’t think I would have coded it as racism. I think I almost only understood racism as something that white people inflicted on black people. I had no idea — or I had very little idea of how Asians fit into the landscape of race in the U.S. And I didn’t know how to understand incidents in which you were not called a very specific racial slur. Like that “no thanks, no sex?” Like — michael barbaro What was that? jiayang fan What was that? Exactly. I think as an 11-year-old, in my head, I didn’t want to be different. I didn’t want to be the one lashing out at others for being racist because inevitably that would make me seem even more different. And I think my mother, my mother was the closest person in my life. But if she had a religion, it would be survival. I learned from my mother not to rock the boat, not to shake the existing system, to basically understand how the existing system works, and then to ascend it in some way, to climb the ladder. As long as you fit in better, you will live a more comfortable life here. And that should be the goal. michael barbaro And did things start to get a little bit better, eventually? jiayang fan I start speaking better English. I start really enjoying and then falling in love with the English language, something that I thought would never happen. That’s really important for me, I have to admit. When that language, English, came to feel like a part of my body, I have to say that felt like a homecoming to me. michael barbaro Hm. And how old are you at this point, where you’re starting to fall in love with the language? jiayang fan I think around maybe 12 or 13. michael barbaro Mm-hm. jiayang fan And I’ll never forget the first time in sixth grade, when I said the phrase “come on.” Like, this sounds silly, but it was only sixth grade when I could comfortably say “come on” to a schoolmate, and I felt very triumphant. michael barbaro As if to say, “enough of that, come on.” jiayang fan Exactly. When I could say that, I was so aware of myself saying it, and I was saying it the way that a normal American speaker would say it. And I’ll never forget the sense of pride that coursed through me. And there was no one I could celebrate it with, right? Because imagine if then I turned to the classmate who I said “come on” with and said, “did you hear me? I just said come on!” [laughter] That would have totally defeated its purpose, but I remember it, because it felt like a real Americanism. And it just rolled off my tongue. michael barbaro So in that moment, you finally feel like you belong. jiayang fan Exactly. But I still see myself predominantly as a visitor, and that my existence is pretty probational on good behavior. And if I behave well, I will be able to minimize the number of times that I stick out as someone who doesn’t belong. But then I started to realize, that’s not exactly how it works. michael barbaro We’ll be right back. So, Jiayang, I wonder if you can tell me about what happened to you recently. jiayang fan So this was in mid-March, when there were rumors that New York City would be put under lockdown because of coronavirus. And I wanted to make sure I had enough food in the house, if I had to stay in for an indefinite period of time. michael barbaro Mm-hm. jiayang fan And I was also really worried about my mother, who has a neurodegenerative disease and lives in a nursing home close by. I knew that I wouldn’t be able to see her for a while, and I had several errands lined up. One was to take out the trash. One was to mail my rent check. And one was to go a few blocks away to my neighbor’s house, to pick up a sack of rice. It was around evening time, and I had just left my apartment building, and I was on the phone, talking to my mother’s health aide in Chinese. And as I was turning around after putting the trash in the trash bin — this is right in front of my apartment. I heard “Chinese, Chinese, Chinese bitch. Fucking Chinese.” But it all — I don’t think I fully believed what I was hearing. And when I made eye contact with him, he kept speaking. “You’re fucking Chinese.” And I realized that that I was comprehending that what he was saying did not stop him. michael barbaro Mm-hm. jiayang fan That was when in my ear, my mom’s aide paused and said, “Are you OK? Is something happening?” And I couldn’t really speak. I found myself walking down the street. I think I was still really set on, “I need to get rice,” but then I found it really hard to continue walking, because my legs just felt leaden. Like, I really, really wanted to continue walking. It would have only been a 10 minute walk away for me to fetch that rice, but I found myself coming to a halt. And even, I thought, if I just kept talking on the phone with my aide, but then I thought, “I’m talking in Chinese. Who else am I going to offend?” And then I just got off the phone. And once I got off the phone, I felt even more scared, because I was so aware of being alone. michael barbaro So this is not embarrassment or even shame in this moment. This is just terror. jiayang fan This is a very real sense of fright that I’m not going to make it to my friend’s house to get my sack of rice. michael barbaro Jiayang, we started this conversation with you saying that your instinct, and maybe it’s because you’re a journalist, maybe it’s as an Asian-American, maybe it’s both, is to minimize these incidents, and to be slow to see them as part of a larger phenomenon. But it sounds like this was different for you. Am I right to think that? jiayang fan Yeah, I mean, this is not the first time I’ve been called a Chinese bitch. But what was different about this incident was that this man seemed to really mean it. And I wondered. I mean, in retrospect, right, I wondered at the relationship between the sense of conviction in the man’s voice, his certainty that he was in the right to point out my Chineseness and to call me a Chinese bitch. michael barbaro Mm-hm. jiayang fan And I think about the things that were going on in his day, like did he lose his job earlier in the day because of this virus? I mean, does he work in the service industry? Does he have a loved one who has also become a prisoner in a nursing home or hospital? And I think about the way that all those anxieties, and rage and sadness, might have hardened into something like an instrument, almost a weapon. michael barbaro Hm. jiayang fan And I think about me being a surface onto which he could use that weapon and lash out. michael barbaro Hm. jiayang fan And I think about the probational nature of my Chinese-American existence, in a sense that, in better times, in normal times, there are certain stereotypes that are cast upon me when I walk down the street. But in a moment of crisis, when it seems plausible that the country where I was born could be responsible for an unprecedented pandemic, that I become a person of suspicion, and I become someone who is quite easy perhaps to target all your ire and anxieties, and that maybe it gave him temporary relief to be able to identify someone or something as the cause for his hurt and for his anxieties. michael barbaro So what do you do? jiayang fan So I go home, double lock my door, pull out my phone and get on Twitter. [tutting] OK, yes. I describe what happened, and I tweet. I wasn’t offended. I was afraid. I was worried he knew where I lived. For the longest time, I’ve been telling friends in China that although racism against Chinese exists in this country, that’s not what I feel in a pandemic. I’ve never felt like this in my 27 years in this country. I’ve never felt afraid to leave my home to take out the trash because of my face. I want to believe what happened is anomalous, and that we’re living in extraordinary times, and fear can deform us. I wonder now if I should have taken his picture. michael barbaro I wonder what your mother would make of this incident. And I wonder what she would think of the fact that you decided to share what happened to you so publicly. jiayang fan I think if I were to tell her about the experience, she might not fully understand the import of it. She would say, “Well, were you hurt?” And I would say, “No.” And she would say, “Well, did you lose anything?” And I would say, “No.” And she would say, “Do you feel like this man is going to cut you down and kill you now?” And I would say, “Probably not, no.” And she would say, “Well, why are you even telling me this? What is the big deal here?” michael barbaro Hm. jiayang fan Or if I were to tell her that I was having this conversation with you, she would say “Why make something out of nothing?” Right? She would say, “Why are you crying victim here? Why are you making this into a bigger deal than it really is? Do you want this to be how you’re remembered, for being that woman who was the victim of a non-incident?” michael barbaro And what would you say in this imaginary conversation with your mother? jiayang fan I think I would try in English, because I think it would be hard for me to find the words in Chinese to explain the significance of it, not on my physical well-being. michael barbaro Help me understand what you mean. jiayang fan Because for the longest — I mean, I think my mom and I both lived with this fiction that if we could be perfect versions of ourselves, for example, if my mother could pronounce “thanks” the way that it’s supposed to be pronounced, and for me, if I could say “come on” naturally, that had always been the goal of our American existence, was to somehow bend ourselves to a shape that America could accept. I never dared to believe that I could actually help to make America better. That was something I never dared to think was possible. But in experiencing this, it made me rethink my role as an American and how even me, even someone who is probationary, that I was in some very, very small way contributing to this country by pointing out the ways that it’s failing itself, making clear the way in which this country still makes me feel ashamed, is possibly one way in which I can make it better. michael barbaro Hm. jiayang fan And also, that’s the best version of America. Like in all the conceptions of America that exist in my head, I actually think this ability to call out the worst parts of America to itself, my freedom to do so, this feels to me the most miraculous part of America. But I think all of that would be, frankly, a bit too abstract to my mother. I think her quest for survival has been so concrete and lived, I’ll never be able to repay her for the way that her very concrete existence has paved the way for my more luxuriantly abstract one, but that maybe that’s a boundary between us that I’ve been able to cross, and that no matter how many ways I try to explain it in what language, if she’ll fully understand. But I really needed to make sure that, for my own sake, I could know that this did happen, that this was not a figment of my imagination, or that in an hour’s time, or in 12 hours’ time, I would try to minimize it in my own mind. michael barbaro Thank you very much for your time. We really appreciate it, Jiayang. jiayang fan Thank you so much for having me. michael barbaro I’m so sorry that you had the experience you had. jiayang fan I am, too. But I’m sure it will be a small experience in what is hopefully a very long and a much bigger one of living in America and being American. [speaking chinese] michael barbaro We’ll be right back. Here’s what else you need to know today. man Majority leader. archived recording (mitch mcconnell) Our nation continues to battle the coronavirus pandemic. More than 400,000 Americans have tested positive. Nearly 15,000 have lost their lives. And important public health measures are creating an economic catastrophe. michael barbaro On Thursday, the Labor Department said that another 6.6 million Americans filed for unemployment benefits in the past week. archived recording (mitch mcconnell) That means. Mr. President, more than 16 million Americans have lost their jobs in only the last three weeks, a tragedy that is hard to even comprehend. michael barbaro Economists now believe that the U.S. unemployment rate is the worst since the Great Depression. The latest figures put even deeper pressure on Congress to adopt a new round of economic relief for workers. But on Thursday, that legislation hit a roadblock in the Senate. Democrats want to double the size of the bill by adding hundreds of billions of dollars for hospitals and local governments, which are facing major financial shortfalls. archived recording (mitch mcconnell) We don’t have to divide along the usual lines so soon after we came together for the country. To my Democratic colleagues, please, please do not block emergency aid you do not even oppose just because you want something more. michael barbaro But Republicans, led by Senate Majority leader Mitch McConnell, say that money can wait. archived recording (mitch mcconnell) Let’s continue to work together with speed and bipartisanship. We will get through this crisis together. michael barbaro “The Daily” is made by Theo Balcomb, Andy Mills, Lisa Tobin, Rachel Quester, Lynsea Garrison, Annie Brown, Clare Toeniskoetter, Paige Cowett, Michael Simon Johnson, Brad Fisher, Larissa Anderson, Wendy Dorr, Chris Wood, Jessica Cheung, Stella Tan, Alexandra Leigh Young, Jonathan Wolfe, Lisa Chow, Eric Krupke, Marc Georges, Luke Vander Ploeg, Adizah Eghan, Kelly Prime, Julia Longoria, Sindhu Gnanasambandan, Jazmin Aguilera, M.J. Davis Lin, Austin Mitchell, Sayre Quevedo, Neena Pathak, Dan Powell, Dave Shaw, Sydney Harper, Daniel Guillemette, Hans Buetow, Robert Jimison, Mike Benoit and Bianca Giaever. Special thanks to Sam Dolnick, Mikayla Bouchard, Lauren Jackson, Julia Simon, Nora Keller, Mahima Chablani, Sabrina Tavernise, Yowei Shaw and Adriana Balsamo. That’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you on Monday. For American-born Asians, there is a sudden sense of being watched that is as unsettling as it is unfamiliar. “It’s a look of disdain,” said Chil Kong, a Korean-American theater director in Maryland. “It’s just: ‘How dare you exist in my world? You are a reminder of this disease, and you don’t belong in my world.’” He added: “It’s especially hard when you grow up here and expect this world to be yours equally. But we do not live in that world anymore. That world does not exist.” One debate among Asian-Americans has been over whether to wear a mask in public. Wearing one risks drawing unwanted attention; but not wearing one does, too. Ms. Zhu said her parents, who live in China, offered to ship her some. “I’m like, ‘Oh please, don’t,’” she said. She said she was afraid of getting physically attacked if she wore one. “Lots of my friends, their social media posts are all about this: We don’t wear masks. It’s kind of more dangerous than the virus.” A 30-year-old videographer in Syracuse, N.Y., said he was still shaken from a trip to the grocery store last week, when the man ahead of him in the checkout line shouted at him, “It’s you people who brought the disease,” and other customers just stared at him, without offering to help. That same day, he said, two couples verbally abused him at Costco. “I feel like I’m being invaded by this hatred,” said the man, Edward, who asked that his last name not be used because he feared attracting more attention. “It’s everywhere. It’s silent. It’s as deadly as this disease.” He said he had tried to hide the details of what happened from his mother, who moved to the United States from China in the 1970s. But there was one thing he did tell her. “I told her, whatever you do, you can’t go shopping,” he said. “She needed to know there’s a problem and we can’t act like it’s normal anymore.” The Coronavirus Outbreak Frequently Asked Questions and Advice Updated April 11, 2020 When will this end? This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days. How can I help? The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.) What should I do if I feel sick? If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. Should I wear a mask? The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. How do I get tested? If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. How does coronavirus spread? It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face. Is there a vaccine yet? No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away. What makes this outbreak so different? Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard. What if somebody in my family gets sick? If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently. Should I stock up on groceries? Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home. Can I go to the park? Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea. Should I pull my money from the markets? That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years. What should I do with my 401(k)? Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions