https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/14/nyregion/cynthia-nixon-cuomo-result.html
For Cynthia Nixon, What Went Wrong in New York Primary? (Clue: Governor Cuomo) - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index New York Today’s Paper New York|For Cynthia Nixon, What Went Wrong in New York Primary? (Clue: Governor Cuomo) https://nyti.ms/2MupQsc AdvertisementContinue reading the main story For Cynthia Nixon, What Went Wrong in New York Primary? (Clue: Governor Cuomo) Cynthia Nixon said at her concession speech on Thursday: “We have fundamentally changed the political landscape in this state. And we have changed what is expected of a Democratic candidate running in New York.”Credit...Hilary Swift for The New York Times By Jesse McKinley Sept. 14, 2018 For Cynthia Nixon, the number was both a remarkable achievement and a visceral reminder of just how far she still needed to go. She drew 512,585 votes, at last count, in Thursday’s primary against Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, nearly tripling the number of votes that Zephyr Teachout received in the 2014 primary in her race against Mr. Cuomo. And yet, Ms. Nixon was trounced, by almost the identical percentage that Ms. Teachout lost by. The results left Ms. Nixon and her supporters seizing on silver linings, but also recognizing that the governor’s vast advantages were too much to bear. L. Joy Williams, one of Ms. Nixon’s top campaign advisers, conceded that the Cuomo camp had effectively marginalized her candidate’s experience as an activist and education advocate. “With $20 million they were able to define her as only being an actress and only being a celebrity,” she said shortly after Ms. Nixon delivered her concession speech in Flatbush, Brooklyn, on Thursday. “Particularly with Trump in the White House, people did this sort of equation that Trump and Cynthia were the same thing,” Ms. Williams added, a choir singing in the background. “That was a difficulty to overcome.” [Five takeaways from New York’s primary election results.] Even before the results came in, Nixon campaign staffers were conceding that they were likely to lose, noting that they had been massively outspent and did not have the might of New York’s unions, which largely lined up behind Mr. Cuomo. Shortly before the polls closed, the Nixon campaign said it would be pleased if Ms. Nixon surpassed the 34.3 percent that Ms. Teachout had received in 2014. She did, fractionally: her final percentage was 34.4 percent. That was a small comfort in the face of an overwhelming defeat by the governor, who tallied nearly one million votes amid heavier than usual turnout for a midterm primary, a fact celebrated in a news release from his campaign Friday morning. Indeed, not long after The Associated Press called the race, about a half-hour after the polls closed, the governor’s top aide, Melissa DeRosa, took to Twitter to scold those who had attacked her boss and his choice of running mates. “So many electeds and others ran against @TishJames and @LtGovHochulNY — making cynical moves based on their finger in the wind calculus,” Ms. DeRosa, who is a state employee, wrote. “The people of N.Y. disagreed with them — and the people of New York, and Governor Cuomo were right and they were wrong.” Nonetheless, moral victories were being claimed by Ms. Nixon’s camp. There was the so-called #CynthiaEffect, a perception that her candidacy had pushed a centrist governor into embracing ideas like legalizing marijuana (an early plank of her campaign, announced in March, and endorsed by Mr. Cuomo over the summer). Ms. Nixon said in her concession speech that her candidacy had focused the governor’s attention on the struggling mass transit system in New York City — “Now everyone understands that the governor controls the subways,” she said — and on problems at the New York City Housing Authority. Ms. Nixon and her supporters also touted her criticism of the governor’s relationship with the Independent Democratic Conference, a rogue group of Democrats that had collaborated with Republicans to help that party rule the State Senate in Albany for seven years. [What exactly was the I.D.C.? Read our explainer here.] “We have fundamentally changed the political landscape in this state,” Ms. Nixon said, after conceding to Mr. Cuomo in a phone call. “And we have changed what is expected of a Democratic candidate running in New York.” Mr. Cuomo and his backers scoff at the #CynthiaEffect, saying he’s been always committed to progressive ideals and fixing things like subways and public housing. And on Friday, he said that he had provided “real-life progressive solutions,” for New Yorkers. “That’s the message of last night to me,” the governor said on Friday at a news conference in his Midtown office. Ms. Nixon’s primary night watch party was backed by the Working Families Party, which probably woke up on Friday with a slight political hangover. A small but influential group built by labor and activists, the W.F.P. broke with Mr. Cuomo in April to back Ms. Nixon, and now will face some serious decisions and possible repercussions for doing so. Mr. Cuomo had already supported and applauded the sudden departure of two of the W.F.P.’s major financial supporters — Local 32BJ and C.W.A. District 1 — after they supported Ms. Nixon. Ms. Nixon technically remains on the November ballot as the W.F.P.’s candidate for governor; she has not said whether she intends to withdraw from the race. If the party’s candidate does not garner 50,000 votes in November, the party will lose its ballot line and essentially cease to be a presence in New York politics. One scenario would have Mr. Cuomo taking the ballot line, but that would involve some high-level negotiations, if not capitulations. On Friday, Working Families officials were being coy about their next steps, though Bill Lipton, the group’s state director, said that his membership and Ms. Nixon would be meeting in the next few weeks to decide how to proceed. Still, on Thursday night, Mr. Lipton seemed enthusiastic about the message sent by the defeat of six incumbent state senators who had belonged to the Independent Democratic Conference. [The progressive fervor sweeping national politics led to the defeat of the six ex-I.D.C. members. Read more here.] “The I.D.C. was the vehicle that Andrew Cuomo used to keep the Republicans in power,” he said. “We’ve basically wiped them off the map. And when he returns, he’s going to return to an Albany he’s never experienced before.” Despite Mr. Cuomo’s landslide victory, Ms. Williams, Ms. Nixon’s campaign manager, felt that the tide was turning, as Ms. Nixon demonstrated her knowledge of policy and pressed her case at public appearances. “All I needed was one more month,” Ms. Williams said, with a laugh. That, however, was not to be. As Mr. Cuomo and some of his closest supporters celebrated in Albany, the Nixon party was wrapping up in Flatbush. One of the attendees, who left the Nixon party soon after the early returns presaged the trouncing, still displayed a sense of sang-froid. “I’m not a Cuomo supporter, I voted for Cynthia Nixon, even as a protest vote,” said Lorraine Cohen, 72, a Democrat from Ditmas Park. “But, you know, I can live with it.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions