https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2020/04/01/andrew-yang-coronavirus-discrimination/
Andrew Yang: We Asian Americans are not the virus, but we can be part of the cure - The Washington Post
Search Input search Sections menu Sections menu Washington Post LogoDemocracy Dies in Darkness Sign in profile Sign in profile Next articles Coronavirus outbreak BusinessIn one month, the meat industry’s supply chain broke. Here’s what you need ... OpinionsBeware of studies claiming covid-19 death rates are smaller than expected WorldLive updates: House leaders abandon plans to return next week; U.S. coronav... Answer Sheet • AnalysisThree doctored covid-19 protest photos -- and other lessons on fake news EuropeBritain’s nurses wore garbage bags as gowns, and the bereaved are demanding... BusinessThe U.S. plans to give $500 billion to large companies. It won’t require th... LocalReopening the DMV: We know the road map, but we’re far from meeting the ben... BusinessSome businesses won’t return funds despite pressure from Trump administrati... PoliticsHouse drops plans to return to D.C., citing virus risk; McConnell vows Sena... PostEverything • PerspectiveTrump wants the military to glorify himself, not serve the nation Answer Sheet • PerspectiveHaving anxiety meltdowns and temper tantrums in front of your kids during c... Cable news anchors with coronavirus share their experience with viewers WorldFrom a restricted Italy, an artist’s eye on the coronavirus PostEverything • PerspectiveYou can help slow the virus if you talk about it accurately online WorldSex workers are falling through the cracks in coronavirus assistance progra... Maryland PoliticsSpecial election to succeed Elijah Cummings underway, with coronavirus rest... LocalLive updates: Coronavirus cited as House leaders abandon plans to return to... LocalNeed a coronavirus test? Here are some of the options in D.C., Maryland, Vi... TechnologyCompanies’ use of thermal cameras to monitor the health of workers and cust... SoccerFrance becomes latest country to end its soccer season because of coronavir... homeHome shareShare Share on Facebook Email this link Share on Twitter Share on Pinterest Share on LinkedIn comment0 Washington Post LogoDemocracy Dies in Darkness Skip to main contentCoronavirusLive updatesU.S. mapWorld mapFAQsFlattening the curveNewsletterYour money Opinions Andrew Yang: We Asian Americans are not the virus, but we can be part of the cure (Salwan Georges/The Washington Post ) By Andrew Yang April 1, 2020 at 4:23 PM EDT Andrew Yang was a Democratic candidate for president and is founder of Humanity Forward. Last week I was shopping for groceries and preparing to hole up at home with my wife, Evelyn, and our two boys. There was an eerie, peculiar aura in the parking lot in upstate New York as night fell and shoppers wheeled out essentials and snacks. Three middle-aged men in hoodies and sweatshirts stood outside the entrance of the grocery store. They huddled together talking. One looked up at me and frowned. There was something accusatory in his eyes. And then, for the first time in years, I felt it. I felt self-conscious — even a bit ashamed — of being Asian. Full coverage of the coronavirus pandemic It had been years since I felt that way. I grew up with semi-regular visitations of that sense of racially tinged self-consciousness. It didn’t help that I was an awkward kid. But after adulthood, marriage, a career, parenthood, positions of leadership and even a presidential run, that feeling had disappeared — I thought. AD AD My place in this country felt assured. I have it better than the vast majority of Americans of any background. When comedian Shane Gillis slurred me by name, I did not think he deserved to lose his job. It barely registered when a teenager yelled “Chink” at me from the window of his car in New Hampshire a number of months ago. My only reaction was to think, “Well, I’m glad that neither of my sons was around because then I might have to explain to them what that word means.” Sign up for our Coronavirus Updates newsletter to track the outbreak. All stories linked in the newsletter are free to access. But things have changed. In the past few weeks, the number of reported physical and verbal attacks on Asian Americans has increased dramatically. The percentage of Asians who use the not-for-profit Crisis Text Line to speak with a counselor has shot up from 5 percent of callers — about in line with our share of the population — to 13 percent, an increase of 160 percent. Some level of background disdain or alienation has grown into outright hostility and even aggression. AD AD And we all know why. The coronavirus is devastating communities and lives. People’s livelihoods and families are being destroyed. And people are looking for someone to blame. Before covid-19, too many Americans were already living paycheck to paycheck, working long hours just to get by. Now, we all are even more fearful for the future, worried about our parents, grandparents and children. We are anxious about our jobs, bills and next month’s rent or mortgage payment. In early February, when I was still running for president, someone asked me, “How do we keep the coronavirus from inciting hostility toward Asians in this country?” I responded, “The truth is that people are wired to make attributions based on appearance, including race. The best thing that could happen for Asians would be to get this virus under control so it isn’t a problem anymore. Then any racism would likely fade.” This was weeks before “Chinese Virus” became a thing. AD AD Now it is, and we have to figure out how to combat that, too. I’m an entrepreneur. In general, negative responses don’t work. I obviously think that being racist is not a good thing. But saying “Don’t be racist toward Asians” won’t work. I have been thinking about ways to improve that encounter at the grocery store. People are hurting. They look up and see someone who is different from them, whom they wrongly associate with the upheaval of their way of life. Natalie Chou, a UCLA basketball player, said that she felt better when she wore her UCLA gear, in part because the association reminded people that she was an American. During World War II, Japanese Americans volunteered for military duty at the highest possible levels to demonstrate that they were Americans. Now many in the Asian American community are stepping up, trying to demonstrate that we can be part of the solution. Some 17 percent of U.S. doctors are Asian and rushing to the front lines. AD AD The Opinions section is looking for stories of how the coronavirus has affected people of all walks of life. Write to us. We Asian Americans need to embrace and show our American-ness in ways we never have before. We need to step up, help our neighbors, donate gear, vote, wear red white and blue, volunteer, fund aid organizations, and do everything in our power to accelerate the end of this crisis. We should show without a shadow of a doubt that we are Americans who will do our part for our country in this time of need. Demonstrate that we are part of the solution. We are not the virus, but we can be part of the cure. Read more: Read a response to this opinion piece by Canwen Xu: Andrew Yang was wrong. Showing our ‘American-ness’ is not how Asian Americans stop racism. AD Read letters to the editor responding to this opinion piece: Blaming the victim during a time of vulnerability Ted Lieu: Trump is stoking xenophobic panic in a time of crisis AD Josh Rogin: Don’t blame ‘China’ for the coronavirus — blame the Chinese Communist Party John Pomfret: The coronavirus reawakens old racist tropes against Chinese people Josh Rogin: China’s coronavirus propaganda campaign is putting lives at risk Coronavirus: What you need to read The Washington Post is providing some coronavirus coverage free, including:Updated April 28, 2020 Live updates: The latest in the U.S. and abroad More stories today: Cancer patients are nearly three times more likely to die of covid-19, study says | CDC confirms six coronavirus symptoms showing up in patients Mapping the spread: Cases and deaths in the U.S. | Map of cases worldwide What you need to know: Stay-at-home orders and reopening by state | Personal finance guide | Make your own fabric mask | Follow all of our coronavirus coverage and sign up for our daily newsletter. How to help: Your community | Seniors | Restaurants | Keep at-risk people in mind Remembering those who have died: Stories of Americans who have died | A memorial for those lost to covid-19Show More Show Less 0 Comments Get our Coronavirus Updates newsletter Receive the most important pandemic developments in your inbox every day. All stories linked in the newsletter are free to access. By signing up you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy Get our Coronavirus Updates newsletter Receive the most important pandemic developments in your inbox every day. All stories linked in the newsletter are free to access. By signing up you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy Terms of Use Policies and Standards Digital Products Terms of Sale Print Products Terms of Sale Terms of Service Policies and Standards Privacy Policy Submissions and Discussion Policy RSS Terms of Service Ad Choices Get Us Home Delivery Digital Subscription Gift Subscriptions Mobile & Apps Newsletters & Alerts Washington Post Live Reprints & Permissions Washington Post Store Photos & Books e-Replica Contact Us Help Contact Reader Representative Advertise News Service & Syndicate Submit a Correction About Us In the Community Careers Newspaper in Education Today's Paper WP BrandStudio Events washingtonpost.com © 1996-2020 The Washington Post Help and Contact Terms of Service Privacy Policy Print Products Terms of Sale Digital Products Terms of Sale Submissions and Discussion Policy Submit a Correction RSS Terms of Service Ad Choices Subscriber sign in We noticed you’re blocking ads! Keep supporting great journalism by turning off your ad blocker. Or purchase a subscription for unlimited access to real news you can count on. Try 1 month for $1 Unblock ads Questions about why you are seeing this? Contact us