https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/28/nyregion/ranked-choice-voting-ny.html
Ranked Choice: What if New Yorkers Pick Their Top 5 Candidates? - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index New York Today’s Paper New York|Ranked Choice: What if New Yorkers Pick Their Top 5 Candidates? https://nyti.ms/36bnBVE AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Ranked Choice: What if New Yorkers Pick Their Top 5 Candidates? New Yorkers may soon have a way to vote for more than one choice. Reginald Pressoir votes with his 4-year-old daughter, Olivia, by his side during the first day of early voting at Van Dyke Community Center in Brownsville, Brooklyn.Credit...Holly Pickett for The New York Times By Jeffery C. Mays Published Oct. 28, 2019Updated Nov. 6, 2019 [Update: Read the election results from New York and New Jersey.] Voting in New York City is rather straightforward: Choose a candidate and move on to the next race. That’s how it’s been for centuries — except, perhaps, during the Boss Tweed era and its wink-wink exhortations to “vote early, vote often.” Now New Yorkers may soon have a legal way to vote for more than one choice. As early voting began on Saturday, voters in New York City were offered a ballot question to decide whether to implement ranked-choice voting in primaries and special elections. Instead of simply choosing one candidate, voters would be able to rank their top five choices for mayor, comptroller, public advocate, borough president and members of the City Council. If a candidate collects more than 50 percent of the vote, that person is the winner. If not, the last-place candidate is eliminated, and the second-choice votes for that candidate would be redistributed among the remaining candidates. The process continues until one candidate has a majority of votes. If approved, the new system would be in effect in time for the 2021 mayoral election — an electoral tsunami that is expected to attract more than 500 candidates, as 35 of the City Council’s 51 seats, two citywide offices (mayor and comptroller) and all five borough presidencies will be vacant because of term limits. One of the main benefits of ranked-choice voting, proponents say, is that it reduces the chance of a fringe candidate winning an election; under that scenario, mainstream candidates split the majority of the vote, leaving just enough votes for a long shot to win. Ranked choice also tends to discourage negative campaigning because candidates may not want to alienate supporters of rival candidates; it also encourages candidates to go beyond their base of supporters. “What we see in the current system is that politicians are advised to dig down into their base of existing supporters and don’t worry about voters in other communities who didn’t vote for you last time,” said Susan Lerner, executive director of Common Cause New York, a good-government group. “With ranked-choice voting, candidates are unlikely to be successful if they only speak to their base, because that slice of voters won’t be enough.” Ranked-choice voting is not new but it is only now starting to catch on around the country. Eighteen cities — including Minneapolis; Santa Fe, N.M.; and San Francisco — already use the system, and it has been floated as a replacement for the Electoral College in presidential elections. Maine recently voted to extend ranked-choice voting to its presidential primaries and general election. In Maryland, Representative Jamie Raskin, a Democrat, recently introduced legislation to use ranked-choice voting for federal elections. “The rate of participation for eligible voters keeps going down. People don’t feel the electoral process means their votes matters,” said Gail Benjamin, chairwoman of Charter Revision Commission 2019. “Looking at ways to change that is important.” While there seems to be little to no organized opposition to the proposal, concerns have been raised. The New York City Bar Association’s charter revision task force endorsed ranked-choice voting, but was unhappy it would not be used in general elections, only in primary and special elections. “The problem with not including ranked-choice in the general election is that it can confuse voters and that kind of potential confusion is not welcome,” said Jerry H. Goldfeder, an election lawyer who chaired the task force. And Bruce Gyory, an adjunct professor of political science at the University at Albany, said it was unwise to test the new system in 2021, during a mayoral primary. “We don’t try things out on Broadway,” he said. “We go Off Broadway first.” But by and large, the momentum seems weighted toward passage. The Independent Budget Office estimated that the city could save up to $20 million every four years by eliminating citywide runoff elections. The expense includes the cost of staging runoffs, but also the millions of dollars that the Campaign Finance Board provides in matching funds. A 2018 study from FairVote, a nonprofit organization that pushes for electoral changes, found that in four California cities that used ranked-choice voting, the percentage of minority candidates who won their races increased to 62 percent from 38 percent, although the percentage of black candidates who won their races declined slightly. The movement is also well funded: The Committee for Ranked Choice Voting NYC raised almost $800,000 for its campaign. More than $500,0000 of it came from the billionaire John Arnold, a former energy hedge fund manager, and his wife Laura Arnold, a lawyer. The pair have donated to many ballot redistricting efforts around the country. The committee also enlisted celebrities like the actor Michael Douglas to push the plan. If voters approve the change, Ms. Benjamin acknowledged that a rigorous education campaign from the Board of Elections will be required. “If the voters approve ranked-choice voting, all of us who vote in New York City will be grateful,” said Ms. Lerner, of Common Cause. “People rank instinctively. It’s like picking your favorite ice cream flavor.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions