https://nypost.com/2020/02/12/brooklyn-bp-eric-adams-says-2021-mayoral-race-is-going-to-a-dirty-campaign/
Brooklyn BP Eric Adams says 2021 mayoral race is 'going to be dirty campaign'
Skip to main content Thanks for contacting us. We've received your submission. Back to Reading Sections News Metro Page Six Sports Business Opinion Entertainment Fashion NY Post Shopping Living Media Tech Real Estate Video Photos Sub Menu 1 Covers Columnists Horoscopes Sports Odds Email Newsletters Store Home Delivery Sign in Search Type to Search Search Tips Sign Up New York Post New York Post Share this: Facebook Twitter Flipboard WhatsApp Email Copy Metro Share this: Facebook Twitter Flipboard WhatsApp Email Copy Brooklyn BP Eric Adams says 2021 mayoral race is ‘going to be dirty campaign’ By Rich Calder View author archive email the author follow on twitter Get author RSS feed Most Popular Today 1 Kim Jong Un's uncle emerges as possible successor in North Korea 2 Top Manhattan ER doc commits suicide, shaken by coronavirus onslaught 3 I've worked the coronavirus front line — and I say it's time to start... 4 Russell Wilson's ex-wife 'savagely' shaded during NFL Draft 5 South Korean officials claim they know where Kim Jong Un is Name(required) Email(required) Comment(required) Submit February 12, 2020 | 8:20pm | Updated February 12, 2020 | 10:24pm Enlarge Image Brooklyn Borough President and 2021 NYC mayoral candidate Eric Adams Dan Herrick More On: eric adams Eric Adams wants to unify city agency cops under NYPD during coronavirus lockdown Stephon Marbury sets up deal to deliver 10M masks to NY amid coronavirus crisis Coronavirus in NY: Brooklyn BP Adams distributes masks to transit workers Brooklyn BP Adams finally agrees to let staff work from home amid coronavirus Brooklyn Borough President Eric Adams on Wednesday warned other front-runners in the 2021 mayoral race that it’s “going to be a dirty campaign.” Adams joined two other mayoral hopefuls — City Council Speaker Corey Johnson and Comptroller Scott Stringer — at a lower Manhattan rally promoting the city’s complex new ranked-choice voting system, which goes into effect June 2021. But while Johnson and Stringer tried to a paint a rosy picture by claiming the new system will rid the Big Apple of mudslinging campaigns, Adams had other thoughts. “That’s a bit of optimism,” said a stone-faced Adams. “Trust me! Trust me! It’s going to be a dirty campaign.” Adams failed to clarify his remarks before leaving the rally early, instead using his brief time speaking to reporters to address the need to educate the public on the new rules. Hours later, Adams’ campaign spokesman Evan Thies claimed the borough president “was joking,” adding, “we are going to focus on the issues.” Neither Johnson nor Stringer addressed Adams’ comments. Instead, they both insisted after he left that the new rules could help put the kibosh on negative campaigning. “In other places, typically Candidate X doesn’t want to be critical of Candidate Y because you can turn off Candidate Y’s votes, so instead you have a positive conversation about the issues that are at play,” Johnson said. “That is what we have seen in Minneapolis, in San Francisco, and other places that have ranked-choice voting.” Stringer also said he believed the new system opens the door to “positive” campaigning. see also Eric Adams says he will carry his own gun if elected mayor Forget about security detail — New York City’s next mayor... “It is inevitable that friends compete, but what I think is critical about ranked-choice [voting] is the way you participate,” Stringer said. “And I think we can all agree that the better we engage as a collective, more people will come out and vote, and more people will feel positive about of democracy.” “I do think we are going to have better participation and a better debate among candidates,” he added. But a top Democratic political consultant told The Post he believes Adams’ remarks were spot on, saying: “who doesn’t think it’s going to be a dirty campaign? It’s a mayor’s race.” Voters overwhelmingly approved the new voting system during a referendum last November. It will allow voters to rank candidates in order of preference on their ballots for city races. If voters still want to choose just one candidate, they can. A candidate who receives a majority of first choice votes will win. But if there is no majority winner, the last-place candidate would be eliminated, and any voter who had that candidate as his or her top choice would have that vote transferred to their next choice. The ranking process continues until a winner is determined. Share this: Facebook Twitter Flipboard WhatsApp Email Copy Filed under corey johnson , eric adams , mayoral race , scott stringer , voting , 2/12/20 Share this article: Share this: Facebook Twitter Flipboard WhatsApp Email Copy Read Next Sarah Lawrence College denies knowing about alleged sex cu... Read Next Sarah Lawrence College denies knowing about alleged sex cu... Share Selection Trending Now on NYPost.com This story has been shared 112,403 times. 112,403 Kim Jong Un's uncle emerges as possible successor in North Korea This story has been shared 95,625 times. 95,625 Packers have 'had enough' of Aaron Rodgers' act This story has been shared 55,985 times. 55,985 De Blasio blasts Jewish community for massive Brooklyn funeral Columnists Jennifer Gould Keil NYC soup kitchens are now serving grad students, actors and musicians Steve Cuozzo Hudson Yards haters have lost their minds — over a fake wall see all columnists what to shop now Gap takes 75 percent off everything for sitewide sale J.Crew takes up to 60 percent off clothes, shoes and more for sitewide sale DSW takes 50 percent off spring styles for flash sale Wayfair takes up to 80% off furniture and more for Save Big, Give Back Sale The best Mother’s Day gifts of 2020 Page Six Style Emily Ratajkowski’s quarantine skincare routine includes snail mucin Emily Ratajkowski’s quarantine skincare routine includes snail mucin Victor Cruz is still getting at-home haircuts from his barber Victor Cruz is still getting at-home haircuts from his barber Celebrity dermatologist’s clients are desperate for Botox during lockdown Celebrity dermatologist’s clients are desperate for Botox during lockdown Now On Now on Page Six Priyanka Chopra and other Bollywood stars pay homage to icon Irrfan Khan Priyanka Chopra and other Bollywood stars pay homage to icon Irrfan Khan Felicity Huffman’s daughter lands on her feet Felicity Huffman’s daughter lands on her feet Irrfan Khan, ‘Life of Pi’ and ‘Slumdog Millionaire’ actor, dead at 54 Irrfan Khan, ‘Life of Pi’ and ‘Slumdog Millionaire’ actor, dead at 54 SEE ALL Video Video length 25 seconds :25 Parents’ boozy balancing act is nothing to ‘wine’ about More Stories page six Katie Couric recalls 'uncomfortable' interview with Denzel Washington nypost Kim Jong Un's uncle emerges as possible successor in North Korea New York Post Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Messenger Email YouTube Email Newsletters Mobile Apps Contact Us Tips Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Messenger Email YouTube Sections & Features News Tech Metro Real Estate Page Six Video Sports Photos Business Alexa Opinion Covers Entertainment Horoscopes Fashion NY Post Shopping Sports Odds Living Classifieds Media Newsletters & More Email Newsletters RSS Feeds Store Post Headliners Home Delivery Subscribe Manage Subscription Delivery Help Help/Support Customer Service App FAQ & Help Contact Us Tips Newsroom Letters to the Editor Reprints Careers Apps iPhone App iPad App Android Phone Android Tablet Advertise Media Kit Contact Post Digital Network Page Six Page Six Style Decider © 2020 NYP Holdings, Inc. All Rights Reserved Terms of Use Privacy Notice Your Ad Choices Sitemap California Privacy Rights Do Not Sell My Personal Information New York Post Would you like to receive desktop browser notifications about breaking news and other major stories? Not Now Yes Please Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel Post was not sent - check your email addresses! Email check failed, please try again Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email. click to copy