https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click&pgtype=Article&state=default&module=styln-coronavirus-newyork&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT&context=storyline_faq
The Coronavirus Outbreak - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index The Coronavirus Outbreak Today’s Paper The Coronavirus Outbreak Right Now The German government has extended a worldwide travel warning until June 14, urging citizens to stay at home. We are providing free access to the most important news and useful guidance on the coronavirus outbreak to help readers understand the pandemic. Log in or create an account to read all of the articles on this page. Latest UpdatesUpdated April 29, 2020, 8:09 a.m. ET Pandemic forces a rethinking of summer plans and immunization programs. Faith in the central government fractures over France’s coronavirus response. Across Europe, a struggle to save the summer vacation. A study finds the coronavirus in tiny airborne droplets in Chinese hospitals. Lockdowns halt illegal wildlife trade, for now. Vaccinations for other preventable diseases are disrupted by pandemic. Sweden did not enforce a lockdown, trusting its people to voluntarily follow the protocols.See More > How new cases are changing by day Jan. 22 Apr. 27 7-day average United States » 1,012,578 total cases Italy » 201,505 U.K. » 161,145 Brazil » 73,235 Canada » 50,015 India » 31,332 See the full world map of cases Select a state Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming S&P 500 Dow S&P 500 Brooklyn Dave Sanders for The New York Times Manhattan James Estrin/The New York Times Grañen, Spain Alvaro Calvo/Getty Images Nantes, France Loic Venance/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images Athens Costas Baltas/Reuters Jakarta, Indonesia Dita Alangkara/Associated Press Los Angeles Matt Winkelmeyer/Getty Images Barcelona, Spain Marta Perez/EPA, via Shutterstock Manila Jes Aznar for The New York Times World Cases U.S. Cases Markets Photos Contribute to Our Reporting The coronavirus pandemic is an unprecedented event in modern history. That’s why our reporters and editors want to hear about your experiences. Are you a medical worker on the front lines of the pandemic? We’re assembling your stories, photos and video into a larger portrait. Have you lost your job, or are you an employer who has cut jobs? We’d like to hear about it. Have you felt the pandemic’s effect on nursing homes? Share your observations. Are you a non-medical essential worker, like a delivery driver, restaurant or grocery employee? Our Video department wants footage of you describing your current challenges. Have something else to contribute? See this page for more. Additional Resources Access our free e-book: “Answers to Your Coronavirus Questions” contains more than two dozen pieces of helpful New York Times journalism. We also have coverage in Spanish and Chinese: Cobertura del coronavirus, 新冠病毒疫情消息 Download the public data: The New York Times is tracking all known cases of the coronavirus in the United States. Learn how to access the data or download county-level data for coronavirus cases on GitHub. Frequently Asked Questions When will this end? This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days. How can I help? The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.) What should I do if I feel sick? If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. Should I wear a mask? The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. How do I get tested? If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. How does coronavirus spread? It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face. Is there a vaccine yet? No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away. What makes this outbreak so different? Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard. What if somebody in my family gets sick? If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently. Should I stock up on groceries? Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home. Can I go to the park? Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea. Should I pull my money from the markets? That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years. What should I do with my 401(k)? Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.” More of Our Coverage Highlights Photo CreditSaul Martinez for The New York Times ‘Will You Help Save My Brother?’: The Scramble to Find Covid-19 Plasma Donors A doctor stricken with Covid-19 was running out of options. His family mounted a search for a donor whose plasma might help. By Audra D. S. Burch and Amy Harmon Photo CreditJonah Markowitz for The New York Times Mayor Breaks Up Crowd at Rabbi’s Funeral: Latest Updates Mayor Bill de Blasio called the gathering in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, “absolutely unacceptable,” but some leaders accused him of a double standard. Photo CreditJustin Sullivan/Getty Images Despite Trump’s Nudging, Schools Are Likely to Stay Shut for Months Most districts have no plans to end online lessons soon, and reopening will bring significant changes, educators say. By Shawn Hubler, Erica L. Green and Dana Goldstein Photo CreditGabriela Bhaskar for The New York Times Trump Vows More Coronavirus Testing, but Less Than What May Be Needed The president’s announcement came after weeks of him insisting that states had plenty of tests. By Sheryl Gay Stolberg Photo CreditJohn Moore/Getty Images C.D.C. Adds New Symptoms to Its List of Possible Covid-19 Signs Chills, muscle pain, sore throat and headache are among the ailments now considered potential indicators of the disease. By Pam Belluck Photo CreditBen Solomon for The New York Times Fired in a Pandemic ‘Because We Tried to Start a Union,’ Workers Say Employees who were in unions or pushing to join them have been laid off and replaced by nonunionized labor. It’s part of a pattern stretching back decades, experts say. By Jessica Silver-Greenberg and Rachel Abrams Photo CreditHilary Swift for The New York Times Hundreds of Miles From Home, Nurses Fight Coronavirus on New York’s Front Lines “Every day you go in and you’re like, ‘Can I do this for one more day?’’’ a nurse from North Carolina said. By Jenny Gross Photo CreditScott Olson/Getty Images Large, Troubled Companies Got Bailout Money in Small-Business Loan Program Companies with accounting problems or in trouble with the government received millions in federal loans. By Jessica Silver-Greenberg, David Enrich, Jesse Drucker and Stacy Cowley Photo Credit 260,000 Words, Full of Self-Praise, From Trump on the Virus Three journalists from The New York Times reviewed more than 260,000 words spoken by President Trump during the pandemic. Here’s what we learned. By Jeremy W. Peters, Elaina Plott and Maggie Haberman Photo Credit The $600 Unemployment Booster Shot, State by State People on unemployment in most states normally receive, on average, less than half their weekly salaries. Now many are poised to receive more than they would have normally earned in their jobs. By Ella Koeze Photo Credit 40,000 Missing Deaths: Tracking the True Toll of the Coronavirus Outbreak Far more people have died over the past month than have been officially reported, a review of mortality data in 12 countries shows. By Jin Wu, Allison McCann, Josh Katz and Elian Peltier Photo CreditThe New York Times Coronavirus Tips: Frequently Asked Questions and Advice The world has changed a lot in the last few weeks. We’re here to help. By The New York Times Photo Credit Coronavirus Deaths by U.S. State and Country Over Time: Daily Tracker Compare the number of deaths and the rate of increase over time in the places the virus has hit hardest so far. By Josh Katz and Margot Sanger-Katz Photo CreditThe locations of people who have tested positive in the U.S. Coronavirus in the U.S.: Latest Map and Case Count A detailed county map shows the extent of the coronavirus outbreak, with tables of the number of cases by county. By The New York Times Latest Search Search Clear this text input Mayor Breaks Up Crowd at Rabbi’s Funeral: Latest Updates Mayor Bill de Blasio called the gathering in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, “absolutely unacceptable,” but some leaders accused him of a double standard. DealBook Newsletter Should There Be Deals During a Pandemic? Elizabeth Warren and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez escalated a Washington pushback against M.&A., introducing a bill to block many corporate acquisitions. On Politics: Another Split-Screen Endorsement An ex-nominee backs a presumptive one, and a third-party bid looms: This is your morning tip sheet. By Giovanni Russonello An Ironman Sale Is Pending Amid Coronavirus. Can Its Racing Mojo Endure? The world’s leading endurance brand thought its global racing schedule made it sufficiently diverse. A pandemic has revealed the flaw in that strategy. By Matthew Futterman Many Museums Won’t Survive the Virus. How Do You Close One Down? Institutions will face ethical and sometimes legal obligations to transfer their collections elsewhere. The process can be costly and time-consuming, experts say. By Nina Siegal The Governor and the Protester She ordered Michigan to stay on lockdown through mid-May. He thinks the measures are too extreme. Coronavirus Live Updates: 100 Days and One Million Confirmed Infections in U.S. Officially, more than 53,000 have died, according to The Times’s count, but death rates suggest the true toll is much higher. President Trump signed an order to keep meat plants open. New York’s mayor helped break up a crowded funeral in Brooklyn. New York Today Coronavirus in N.Y.C.: Latest Updates The governor waded into the city-versus-state dispute over the issue of homeless people sleeping on trains. When N.Y. Needed Hospital Space, Film Location Scouts Pitched In Enterprising creative workers, like artists, photographers and students, are using their unique skills to help the city through the pandemic. By Jane Margolies Pandemic Shakes France’s Faith in a Cornerstone: Strong Central Government Local governments are now challenging the primacy of the centralized state, the foundation of French society, after it allowed supplies of virus-fighting masks and test kits to be depleted. By Norimitsu Onishi and Constant Méheut Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions