https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/26/style/gofundme-coronavirus.html?action=click&pgtype=Article&state=default&module=styln-coronavirus-newyork&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT&context=storyline_faq
GoFundMe Confronts Coronavirus Demand - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Style Today’s Paper Style|GoFundMe Confronts Coronavirus Demand https://nyti.ms/39gsnBz The Coronavirus Outbreak debugid:204 • Latest Updates Maps and Tracker New Symptom List Markets Life at Home Newsletter AdvertisementContinue reading the main story GoFundMe Confronts Coronavirus Demand Americans are turning to crowdfunding to cover coronavirus-related costs while the government prepares to deliver on its stimulus plan. But most campaigns aren’t meeting their goals. Credit...Simoul Alva By Nathaniel Popper and Taylor Lorenz March 26, 2020 When the governor of Connecticut ordered all restaurants in the state to close on March 16, Colt Taylor quickly applied for a disaster loan from the Small Business Administration and called an emergency meeting to tell the 31 employees at his two restaurants that he could no longer pay them. Before all that, Mr. Taylor had gone online and set up a GoFundMe campaign to raise money for his unemployed staff. GoFundMe, which allows anyone 13 or older to raise money for almost any cause, has become a go-to for emergency fund-raising, especially in the wake of disaster. As the new coronavirus has created unforeseen expenses for most Americans and shut down the U.S. economy, the platform is facing the greatest demand it has seen since its founding in 2010. Between March 20 and March 24, the number of coronavirus-related campaigns on GoFundMe shot up by 60 percent, from 22,000 to 35,000. The stories told on those fund-raising pages convey the breadth of destruction that the new coronavirus has wreaked — grieving families facing costs for funerals that few will be able to attend, food pantries stretched thin, and unemployed artists, bartenders, substitute teachers and manicurists simply trying to survive. GoFundMe can only do so much for its fund-raisers; campaigns require promotion on the organizers’ part. In the case of Mr. Taylor, eight days after he started his campaign, he had raised just $295 of the $20,000 goal he set to support his workers at Los Charros Cantina and the Essex in Essex, Conn. “It is a hard road with GoFundMe,” said Mr. Taylor, 36. “It is up to the organizer to market it and get it out there. The struggle I have is that I’m so understaffed and going through all of my own difficulties, I don’t really have time to do that.” Millions of Americans are now under similar strain, and applications for unemployment benefits have surged across the country. While those in need await government aid, including the stimulus checks that will begin to cover their expenses, they are turning to the internet for help. The question is: Can it help them? Image Colt Taylor created a GoFundMe campaign for the former employees of his two restaurants in Essex, Conn.Credit...Christopher Capozziello for The New York Times Image His restaurants, the Essex and Los Charros Cantina, have become takeout- and delivery-only operations. Mr. Taylor is running many of the deliveries himself.Credit...Christopher Capozziello for The New York Times America’s Safety Net The new coronavirus presents an extreme case of the country turning to GoFundMe as a financial safety net. The platform lets users set up a campaign through just a few clicks — a sharp contrast with the bureaucracy involved in applying for most grants and loans. GoFundMe, a for-profit company that makes money by charging a processing fee for each donation, and through “tips” to the company, is scrambling to help channel both the demand for money and the people looking for help. As of Tuesday, the company said, donors had contributed $60 million to coronavirus-related campaigns. Latest Updates: Coronavirus Outbreak in the U.S. 100 days, one million confirmed infections, and a country transformed. New C.D.C. statistics reveal more about the true toll. A report on the U.S. economy is going to be bad, and the Fed is weighing further interventions. See more updates Updated 48m ago More live coverage: Global Markets New York On Tuesday, the company announced a partnership with Yelp that would allow struggling restaurants to post their GoFundMe campaigns on their Yelp sites. The two companies are also offering to match the first $500 that small businesses raise. Additionally, GoFundMe is running its own megafund for small businesses and another for individuals and nonprofits. In the wake of disasters like hurricanes and wildfires, most of the appeals on GoFundMe have come from families or individuals looking for help. This time around, the vast majority of people who have come forward are business owners who had to shut down their establishments because of the density-control measures in place across the country. “What we’re seeing is an interesting broadening of what GoFundMe is normally used for,” said Nora Kenworthy, an associate professor at the University of Washington Bothell School of Nursing and Health Studies. As of Tuesday, there were over 14,000 verified campaigns from small businesses. Among those that had been posted for at least five days, about a third had raised half of the amount they set as their goal, according to an analysis by The New York Times. In times of relative calm, 27 percent of all GoFundMe campaigns end up hitting their goal, according to research released earlier this year from a team at the University of Rochester. But the current crisis is likely to pose even more difficulties than usual because of the sheer amount of need, and the fact that most people who may be donors are also living through an economic crisis. “Previous natural disasters happened somewhere, and people somewhere else gave to them,” said Tim Cadogan, who took over as the chief executive of GoFundMe earlier in March. “This is a natural disaster that is affecting everyone.” Image Mr. Taylor, right, prepares orders with Shawn Sullivan, a line cook.Credit...Christopher Capozziello for The New York Times Image Kate McSpadden picks up an order.Credit...Christopher Capozziello for The New York Times Running a Successful Campaign The sheer number of campaigns that have already popped up means it is very easy to get lost in the logjam of other people seeking help. Organizers looking for visibility have begun to aggregate GoFundMes into Google documents and Twitter lists based on subcategory and geography. One Google Doc contains a list of more than 540 GoFundMe pages for Chicago businesses. Other documents focus on artists, and contractors in the technology sector. As GoFundMe pages proliferate, however, some campaigns have an advantage. One GoFundMe page created on Tuesday by Flexport, a logistics start-up, has already raised more than $3.3 million to distribute supplies to medical professionals. Its success can be traced at least in part to public support from celebrities including Edward Norton, Pharrell Williams and Kim Kardashian West, who have shared the GoFundMe link with their tens of millions of followers. Yashar Ali, a journalist, has previously started several large GoFundMe campaigns, raising more than $2.1 million last year to rebuild a group of historically black churches. On March 19 he started a campaign to help hourly workers affected by the pandemic. He teamed up with two nonprofits, Robin Hood in New York City and Tipping Point in San Francisco, to help allocate the funds. Public figures including Elizabeth Banks, Busy Phillips, Whitney Cummings, Ellen DeGeneres and Jenna Fischer promoted the GoFundMe link. The superstar investor Chris Sacca and his wife agreed to do a $100,000 match in donations. So far, the campaign has raised $430,613 of its $1 million goal. But Mr. Ali said that even that success was less than he had expected. “If this were any other time, I would have had maybe $4 million right now,” he said. He said that now, the need is dispersed so broadly that it’s hard for any single campaign to take off. “This isn’t like, we need to rebuild houses in Houston after the hurricane, or some people lost their livelihood in a devastating fire,” Mr. Ali said. “This is, ‘Joe down the street needs 100 bucks to buy groceries today.’” A lot of the differentiation is in the marketing: emotional appeals, headlines and external promotion. “Virality is important,” said Matt Klein, the director of strategy at Sparks & Honey, a trends and insights consultancy. “Fund-raisers are simultaneously tasked with becoming emotional storytellers, self-promoters and social media marketing gurus to ensure their campaign gains traction.” Monia Trezza, 45, who owns three Italian restaurants and wine bars in Brooklyn with her husband, both of whom are from Italy, has been hit doubly hard by the virus. “All of our suppliers, businesses, family, friends, they are affected by this,” she said. “First in Italy and now in New York.” After being forced to close their restaurants last week, she started a GoFundMe campaign on March 22 to help support her businesses and the staff they employ, all of whom, she said, are Italian citizens and do not qualify for unemployment benefits. Gaining traction has been hard. Ms. Trezza said she can hardly sleep at night, and when she wakes up her mind is racing. She and her husband have emailed their GoFundMe link to all of their contacts and posted it to the restaurants’ social media accounts. But “we are not influencers,” she said. “If an influencer starts a GoFundMe, they have a lot of followers so they automatically get sharing. If you’re a little business like us, it’s not like that.” Four days in, Ms. Trezza had raised $2,700 of her $25,000 goal. ‘We Can’t Validate Everything’ The inequality of outcomes in GoFundMe has long been a feature of the site, with the most web-savvy, socially connected organizers taking home the biggest hauls. Two researchers at the Oxford Internet Institute wrote a paper, currently under review, that suggests that campaigns in wealthier areas of the United States, with better pre-existing social nets, tend to be more successful than those in poorer areas, where the need is greater to begin with. “Campaigns are least likely to reach their goals when they most need it,” said Sumin Lee, the lead author of the paper. “It could be a good opportunity, but we have to be mindful that the success in crowdfunding at a time like this is likely to be unevenly distributed.” For GoFundMe, though, the most immediate challenge, along with helping people sort through campaigns, is ensuring that donations are going to people in need, rather than to those trying to take advantage of a bad situation. The company estimates that less than 0.1 percent of all campaigns are fraudulent, but the company says it does not have the resources to check up on whether the restaurant owners raising money actually pass it along to their employees. “In terms of what they do with the funds, there are some limits to our ability to validate that,” Mr. Cadogan said. “There is an element of trust in this — we can’t validate everything.” Kelly Angard, 55, an artist in Denver who started a GoFundMe to ship surgical masks to hospitals in need, said she takes careful steps to make sure she is transparent with donors about where their money is going. She sends FedEx tracking numbers for the mask shipments to the hospitals, and publicly posts her mask purchase orders in the update section of her GoFundMe page. “Every dime will be accounted for, and that is key,” Ms. Angard said. What the site could be more prepared to help with is the promotion of faltering campaigns. In Connecticut, even if Mr. Taylor eventually meets his goal, he will only have managed to cover his employees’ wages for a week. Keeping his two restaurants alive, so they can hire back the bartenders and cooks in the future, will require a lot more money. “The amount of money I need is not something a GoFundMe can handle,” he said. His real anger is reserved for government officials. “The government has not been helping us, so we are left with the devices we have at hand,” he said. Aaron Krolik contributed reporting. The Coronavirus Outbreak Frequently Asked Questions and Advice Updated April 11, 2020 When will this end? This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days. How can I help? The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.) What should I do if I feel sick? If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. Should I wear a mask? The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. How do I get tested? If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. How does coronavirus spread? It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face. Is there a vaccine yet? No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away. What makes this outbreak so different? Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard. What if somebody in my family gets sick? If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently. Should I stock up on groceries? Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home. Can I go to the park? Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea. Should I pull my money from the markets? That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years. What should I do with my 401(k)? Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions