https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/29/nyregion/andrew-yang-mayor-nyc.html#after-bottom
Does Andrew Yang Want to Be New York’s Post-Coronavirus Mayor? - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index New York Today’s Paper New York|Does Andrew Yang Want to Be New York’s Post-Coronavirus Mayor? https://nyti.ms/2KHuwwp The Coronavirus Outbreak debugid:204 • Latest Updates Maps and Tracker New Symptom List Markets Life at Home Newsletter AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Does Andrew Yang Want to Be New York’s Post-Coronavirus Mayor? The ex-presidential candidate has boosted his profile, giving money to Bronx residents and starting a podcast and an antidiscrimination campaign. Andrew Yang, the former Democratic presidential candidate, could benefit from relatively high name recognition and a list of supporters ready to donate to a mayoral campaign.Credit...Gabriele Holtermann-Gorden/Pacific Press/LightRocket via Getty Images By Matt Stevens April 29, 2020Updated 5:38 a.m. ET On the night Andrew Yang dropped out of the Democratic presidential primary, he said the sorts of things politicians say after a disheartening defeat: “We are just getting started!” and “This is the beginning!” What exactly it was the beginning of was not entirely clear. Mr. Yang is an entrepreneur, not a lifelong politician, with experience leading a test-prep company and a nonprofit organization. And true to his roots, Mr. Yang in March created a New York-based nonprofit, Humanity Forward, which has started to distribute more than $1 million to needy families in the Bronx. The assistance hewed to his presidential campaign pledge to give every American adult $1,000 a month as part of a universal basic income mandate. Now, with the coronavirus pandemic in full bloom, his efforts have taken on prescient relevance — just as his vision of an America plagued by mass unemployment has taken hold. His re-emergence in New York has added to the intrigue surrounding a possible 2021 mayoral run, an idea that has been floated in his direction since he suspended his presidential campaign in February. In a race that, like so many other aspects of life, will be almost entirely reshaped by the coronavirus, some say a candidate with the ideas and creativity to meet the moment may be just what voters are looking for as New York tries to rebuild. “Andrew was and still is a very attractive candidate,” said State Senator John Liu of Queens, the only Asian-American to ever run for mayor of New York. “He’s got credentials, he is articulate and he has a following, both nationally as well as right here in New York. I often say, he’s our Shirley Chisholm.” On Monday, Mr. Yang, 45, unveiled two projects: a podcast to amplify his ideas and core philosophies, and a campaign aimed at combating racism toward Asian-Americans and others who have faced discrimination during the outbreak. Mr. Yang has maintained that his initiatives represent an attempt to simply help as many people as possible in what he called a “brutally difficult time.” “This is a catastrophe,” Mr. Yang said, “and there are certain aspects of the catastrophe that I’m actually like one of the best-positioned people in the country to try and tackle.” Mr. Yang, who was born in upstate New York but has spent most of his adult life living in the Hell’s Kitchen neighborhood of Manhattan, has repeatedly said he would not rule out a mayoral run on the grounds that the job would allow him to quickly help a lot of people. In an interview last week, he reiterated that point and also acknowledged, “I am more attracted to executive roles generally because I feel like you can get more done.” The New York Times had reported that advisers to Michael R. Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York and fellow former presidential candidate, reached out to Mr. Yang after he withdrew from the presidential race to offer counsel about a possible mayoral campaign. Latest Updates: Coronavirus Outbreak in New York A Hasidic funeral in Brooklyn drew a huge crowd, and the mayor’s wrath. Governor Cuomo called the sight of homeless people sleeping on the subway ‘disgusting.’ Far from home, nurses from other states fight on New York’s front lines. See more updates Updated 20m ago More live coverage: Global Markets U.S. Two people familiar with Mr. Yang’s thinking emphasized that he does not covet a spot at City Hall or any other political office, and that, at least at the current moment, he leans toward not running. But the people also said that in recent days, Mr. Yang had begun to give the idea more serious consideration after being made aware of polling that showed him far ahead of other likely candidates. They added that Mr. Yang might decide to defer a decision about whether to run until after the presidential election in November. He planned to remain focused on that contest in the months ahead, they said. Mr. Yang has endorsed Joseph R. Biden Jr. in the race, but on Tuesday night he sued the New York State Board of Elections for having canceled June’s Democratic presidential primary, according to court documents. He argued in the documents that losing delegates and losing the right to vote in New York was “quite simply an outrage that is illegal” and that it would cause him to lose influence at the party’s convention. In the interview, Mr. Yang said he last spoke to Mr. Biden in early March, sometime before the former vice president became the presumptive Democratic nominee. Mr. Yang said they discussed unifying voters to defeat President Trump, as well as the need to “put more Americans in a position to be succeed.” Mr. Biden, he said, had solicited his help in a general way, but Mr. Yang added that “he and I have not come together on universal basic income.” As for Mr. Yang’s mayoral prospects, several experts and members of the city’s political class expressed deep skepticism about whether voters would support a candidate with no political experience as New York emerges from a pandemic. While they acknowledged that Mr. Yang could benefit from relatively high name recognition and an email list full of supporters ready to donate, they cautioned that celebrity does not always translate into support in New York City, and pointed to Cynthia Nixon’s failed run for governor in 2018 as recent evidence. And while they conceded that Mr. Yang’s universal basic income idea appeared to be gaining some traction, strategists argued that it would be nearly impossible to fund such a program as the city stares at huge budget deficits and a financial crisis. Christina Greer, an associate professor of political science at Fordham University, said she also found Mr. Yang’s racial politics “troubling and retrograde,” noting that during his campaign Mr. Yang would at times leverage racial stereotypes for laughs and applause, and that he recently published a widely criticized op-ed about being Asian-American. Whoever takes over the city in the years to come, the professor added, will need to bring a more modern perspective to attack the racial and ethnic inequalities in New York that the virus has starkly highlighted. “Andrew Yang,” she said “is the antithesis of what New York needs post-coronavirus.” Though the mayoral primary is more than a year away, several other likely candidates have already emerged, including Eric L. Adams, the Brooklyn borough president; Corey Johnson, the speaker of the New York City Council; and Scott M. Stringer, the city’s comptroller. All three have been raising money for many months, putting any undeclared candidate at great disadvantage. Still, in an interview on Tuesday, Mr. Johnson said that Mr. Yang’s presidential candidacy had inspired and excited many people and that he had clearly connected with voters “in a meaningful way.” Asked how that experience might translate during a possible mayoral run, Mr. Johnson added: “New Yorkers are going to be focused on what are you doing during this moment in time. What is your vision for the future of New York City? What values do you bring to the table? How are you anchored in neighborhoods across New York City?” Adding to the intrigue, next summer’s primary will be the first to utilize ranked-choice voting, which could scramble several aspects of what Mr. Adams has already warned could be a “dirty” campaign. Whoever wins will be rewarded with the daunting task of taking over the administration of a city as it seeks to rebound from economic destruction. The New York of the future will be “less active” and “a lot poorer,” Mr. Yang said. “It makes me incredibly sad thinking about it.” Asked how he might lessen the pain during a recovery, he began his response by sketching a hypothetical situation: “Let’s say you were the mayor …” Michael Gold and Jeffery C. Mays contributed reporting. The Coronavirus Outbreak Frequently Asked Questions and Advice Updated April 11, 2020 When will this end? This is a difficult question, because a lot depends on how well the virus is contained. A better question might be: “How will we know when to reopen the country?” In an American Enterprise Institute report, Scott Gottlieb, Caitlin Rivers, Mark B. McClellan, Lauren Silvis and Crystal Watson staked out four goal posts for recovery: Hospitals in the state must be able to safely treat all patients requiring hospitalization, without resorting to crisis standards of care; the state needs to be able to at least test everyone who has symptoms; the state is able to conduct monitoring of confirmed cases and contacts; and there must be a sustained reduction in cases for at least 14 days. How can I help? The Times Neediest Cases Fund has started a special campaign to help those who have been affected, which accepts donations here. Charity Navigator, which evaluates charities using a numbers-based system, has a running list of nonprofits working in communities affected by the outbreak. You can give blood through the American Red Cross, and World Central Kitchen has stepped in to distribute meals in major cities. More than 30,000 coronavirus-related GoFundMe fund-raisers have started in the past few weeks. (The sheer number of fund-raisers means more of them are likely to fail to meet their goal, though.) What should I do if I feel sick? If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others. Should I wear a mask? The C.D.C. has recommended that all Americans wear cloth masks if they go out in public. This is a shift in federal guidance reflecting new concerns that the coronavirus is being spread by infected people who have no symptoms. Until now, the C.D.C., like the W.H.O., has advised that ordinary people don’t need to wear masks unless they are sick and coughing. Part of the reason was to preserve medical-grade masks for health care workers who desperately need them at a time when they are in continuously short supply. Masks don’t replace hand washing and social distancing. How do I get tested? If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested. How does coronavirus spread? It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face. Is there a vaccine yet? No. Clinical trials are underway in the United States, China and Europe. But American officials and pharmaceutical executives have said that a vaccine remains at least 12 to 18 months away. What makes this outbreak so different? Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard. What if somebody in my family gets sick? If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently. Should I stock up on groceries? Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home. Can I go to the park? Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea. Should I pull my money from the markets? That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years. What should I do with my 401(k)? Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.” AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions