https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/28/us/politics/trump-campaign-acronym.html#site-content
Digital Ad Strategy Shows Impact on Voters’ Views of Trump - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics|Digital Ad Strategy Shows Impact on Voters’ Views of Trump https://nyti.ms/2VM7ye0 Latest Results National Map Delegate Count Election Calendar Who’s Running AdvertisementContinue reading the main story On Politics Media Watch Digital Ad Strategy Shows Impact on Voters’ Views of Trump Here’s a deeper look at how the Barometer team at Acronym is testing the impact of its Facebook ads. By Nick Corasaniti April 28, 2020 Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox every weekday. The Trump campaign has repeatedly credited its online prowess, particularly on Facebook, as a key to its 2016 victory. Now, the Facebook employee who embedded with the Trump campaign to help it master message testing and iteration is working for Democrats. And he has revived one of the most important tactics he used for the Trump campaign at Acronym, a progressive nonprofit. We wrote about the efforts of James Barnes and the Barometer team at Acronym on Tuesday, how they test the impact of their Facebook ads in real time through a series of surveys served to a custom audience before and after each ad campaign. In tonight’s newsletter, where we embrace all things digital, we’re going to get a little more granular on three tests that Mr. Barnes and his team ran. The Barometer team began running a test in January that featured two pieces of so-called boosted news — the practice of paying to place news articles in the newsfeeds of users — on the killing of Maj. Gen. Qassim Suleimani of Iran. One was an in-depth news article from The Times about the killing, and the second was an article from The Washington Examiner quoting criticism of President Trump from Tucker Carlson. Overwhelmingly, the ad featuring the criticism from Mr. Carlson had a greater impact on voters, outperforming the ad with The Times article in nearly every demographic. Notably, the criticism from Mr. Carlson not only lowered approval of Mr. Trump among those who saw the ads (especially among those with less political knowledge, measured in this test by whether the user knew which party controlled the House), but it also made the Iran killing a more prominent issue with older voters. This was the first test conducted by the Barometer team that showed the impact both of highlighting conservative criticism and of how different messengers for a similar topic — this time Tucker Carlson and The New York Times — can have vastly different effects. In another test, the Barometer team tried three types of ads related to the coronavirus: boosted news featuring health care workers criticizing the government response, a traditional political attack ad and an ad consisting of negative news clips simply sliced together. The results were varied. For 18- to 34-year-olds, the health care workers were among the most effective messengers at driving voter enthusiasm, while the traditional political ad had little to no impact. For “low news consumption voters,” the negative news clips had a greater impact on driving down approval of the president. Though the traditional political ad rarely performed as well as the two boosted news segments, it had a particular resonance in Michigan. While the political ad was being tested, Michigan was experiencing its first surge of coronavirus cases, and it appears the surrounding news environment helped the political ad resonate better than it did in other states like Arizona, where the outbreak was less severe. Acronym also partnered with another progressive group, the Center for American Progress Action Fund, to run a test on a traditional political ad graphic and three voter testimonial videos. The graphic, which compared corporate profits with wages under the federal tax law from 2017, had a statistically significant impact over all on voters’ approval of Mr. Trump. But the testimonials resonated more with “low political information” voters, including one video, titled “Jerry,” that also prompted a decline in trust for Mr. Trump’s handling of economic issues. Of course, message testing is a messy mix of science and art, and all the usual caveats about noise and outliers apply to Barometer’s testing. But Acronym already asserts that the tests have helped inform the ad campaigns of its separate super PAC, Pacronym, and that users who saw those ads over the past two months of testing have shown a statistically significant decline in approval of Mr. Trump. Whether that holds, or can scale, depends on how broadly these results can be shared around the broader Democratic universe. Drop us a line! We want to hear from our readers. Have a question? We’ll try to answer it. Have a comment? We’re all ears. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com. Ad of the week: A stinging split-screen The image is striking: A shot of a woman’s eyes over a surgical mask juxtaposed with a photo of President Trump and Vice President Mike Pence smiling and shaking hands. In a dozen states, officials have classified abortion as an “elective medical procedure” that would be prohibited under stay-at-home orders as a way of limiting access. Abortion rights advocates argue that those measures could motivate independent and suburban women in the fall, helping Democrats recreate the coalition that helped them win control of the House in 2018. The message: Even as the Trump administration focuses on managing the coronavirus outbreak, the abortion rights group NARAL Pro-Choice America wants to remind voters that the administration is also taking steps to limit access to abortion and women’s health services. A split screen shows pictures of Mr. Trump and Mr. Pence smirking as photos of ambulances, emergency-room doctors and packed hospitals scroll across the bottom of the screen. The takeaway: The ad wants to send a message to both the administration and the Democratic Party, arguing that no one should forget about women’s health in this moment of crisis. “As much as everything feels upside down right now, people are still driven by the same values, and Trump is on the wrong side of those values,” said Ilyse Hogue, head of NARAL. — Lisa Lerer Were you forwarded this newsletter? Sign up here to get it delivered to your inbox. Thanks for reading. On Politics is your guide to the political news cycle, delivering clarity from the chaos. Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com. Our 2020 Election Guide Updated April 28, 2020 The Latest Hillary Clinton, during a virtual town hall-style event about the impact of the coronavirus on women, announced her support for Joseph R. Biden Jr. Coronavirus Election Calendar As the pandemic upends the 2020 campaign, several states have postponed or canceled their primary elections. We’re keeping track here. Keep Up With Our Coverage Get an email recapping the day’s news Download our mobile app on iOS and Android and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts Listen to our podcast, The Field, on Apple Podcasts and Spotify AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions