https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/01/24/us/politics/presidential-primary-election-guide.html?action=click&module=ELEX_results&pgtype=Interactive&region=RelatedCoverage
Ready, Set, Vote: Here’s Everything You Need to Know for the 2020 Primaries - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Ready, Set, Vote: Here’s Everything You Need to Know for the 2020 Primaries By Sarah Almukhtar, Matt Flegenheimer, Umi Syam and Eden WeingartUpdated Feb. 3, 2020 Instructions To reveal the answer, click on the question. Expand All Collapse All 1 When does primary season begin? How long is it? Voting began Feb. 3 with the Iowa caucuses. The last states vote in early June. So, four months. Like a college semester, except in the end all but one person will flunk out. Days Hours Minutes Seconds ::: Time Left Until New Hampshire Primary 2 Whom will I be voting for in the primaries? The main event: candidates for the Democratic and Republican 2020 presidential nominations. But voters will find all manner of down-ballot elections to consider on primary day, including House and Senate races and seats on the state legislature. You might be voting for the presidents of tomorrow in those contests. 3 What’s the difference between primaries and caucuses? Primaries are reasonably straightforward: Voters vote, and their votes go to candidates who hope to receive more votes than the other candidates. Caucuses are like this in spirit, but with a dash of municipal sausage-making and D.M.V.-style chaos. Generally, supporters for various candidates sit or stand together in groups. A head count is conducted. And if a candidate doesn’t reach a certain threshold of support — say, 15 percent of attendees at a caucus site — the group is deemed “nonviable,” and its members realign with other clusters before a final count is made. Democracy! 4 So when do I vote? Three possibilities: Early voting. Enjoy responsibly! And check out the rules and dates for your state. Election Day voting. The classic! Also varies by state, of course. Your primary was canceled. Better luck next time! 5 Can states actually cancel their primaries? They can, and they did! While President Trump would be an overwhelming favorite to win a Republican primary in any state, some of them have decided to scrap the exercise altogether. Trump critics called the moves antidemocratic, but there is bipartisan precedent for such cancellations when a party’s incumbent is seeking re-election. Canceled Republican primaries and caucuses AK NV KS VA AZ SC HI Canceled Republican primaries and caucuses AK NV KS VA AZ SC HI Canceled Republican primaries and caucuses AK NV KS VA AZ SC HI Source: Ballotpedia 6 Is there a Republican presidential primary, officially? Yes, in most states. Mr. Trump’s opponents include Joe Walsh, a former Illinois congressman, and William F. Weld, a former governor of Massachusetts. At present, they are approximately as likely to win as any person reading this sentence. #SentenceReaders2020 7 Can I vote in both the Democratic primary and the Republican primary? One vote per person, folks. And in some states with so-called closed primaries, you’ll need to be registered with a given party to participate. 8 Will impeachment affect the campaign? As a practical matter, the impeachment trial in the Senate will keep several Democratic candidates in Washington during crucial would-be campaign days. As an issue for voters, impeachment is not necessarily front of mind. The top Democrats tend to agree that Mr. Trump should be removed from office — and they also expect the Republican-led Senate to clear him. In recent weeks, voters have pressed candidates much more often on issues like health care and climate than on any allegations of executive high crimes and misdemeanors. 9 Could Trump get elected president again, even after being impeached by the House? That’s his plan. Mr. Trump is the first impeached president ever to seek re-election. He would like to be the first impeached president to win again. 10 I keep hearing this is the largest Democratic field. How big is it, actually? At present’, its 11 deep. Bennet Biden Bloomberg Buttigieg Gabbard Klobuchar Patrick Sanders Steyer Warren Yang At its peak, the field swelled well into the 20s, exceeding even the unwieldy 2016 Republican roster and requiring two nights of 10-person debates that nonetheless barred a handful of candidates from the stage. Democrats in 2020 20 candidates 12 Democrats in 2016 Republicans in 2016 4 120 weeks before the election 20 2020 Dem. 20 candidates 12 2016 Dem. 2016 Rep. 4 120 weeks before the election 20 2020 Dem. 20 candidates 12 2016 Dem. 2016 Rep. 4 120 weeks before the election 20 11 Who’s likely to win the Democratic nomination? Where’s the suspense in telling you now? Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. has often led in national polls, but the state-level surveys are more of a muddle. Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont has raised the most money and retains a loyal core of support from his 2016 run. Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and Pete Buttigieg, the former mayor of South Bend., Ind., have shown strength in Iowa at various points. Betting markets appraise Mr. Biden as the likeliest nominee. They also liked Jeb Bush’s chances in 2016. The race in national polling averages Biden 27% Sanders 24 Warren 14 Bloomberg 8 Buttigieg 7 Klobuchar 5 Yang 4 Steyer 2 Bennet <1 Gabbard <1 Patrick <1 The race in national polling averages Biden 27% Sanders 24 Warren 14 Bloomberg 8 Buttigieg 7 Klobuchar 5 Yang 4 Steyer 2 Bennet <1 Gabbard <1 Patrick <1 The race in national polling averages Biden 27 % Sanders 24 Warren 14 Bloomberg 8 Buttigieg 7 Klobuchar 5 Yang 4 Steyer 2 Bennet <1 Gabbard <1 Patrick <1 National polling averages as of Feb. 1. 12 Which Democrat has the best chance of beating Trump? For months, Democratic voters have talked constantly about . They have had a harder time agreeing on what it means — or at least, who best embodies it. Biden supporters say the party needs someone who can appeal to white working-class voters who gravitated to Mr. Trump. Some Warren supporters consider this to be a sexist euphemism for an older male nominee, arguing that Ms. Warren’s raft of liberal plans can better inspire the masses. Mr. Buttigieg and Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota have suggested that a Midwestern sensibility is best. And Mr. Sanders, whose admirers insist he would have defeated Mr. Trump in 2016 if given the chance, has been perhaps the least subtle at times. A campaign swing planned last year was billed as the “Bernie Beats Trump” tour. 13 Why do I keep hearing that Iowa is so important? Because Iowa goes first and has since the 1970s. Why? There’s no great reason (though the tumultuous 1968 Democratic convention set the stage to an extent), and inertia is a powerful thing. It’s sort of like a teacher giving extra credit to the student who comes first alphabetically, except instead of extra credit, it’s kind words from national politicians about the good people of Sioux City. Strictly speaking, Iowa awards a relatively small share of delegates (more on that shortly). But winning the state, or even exceeding expectations as a nonwinner, can propel a campaign through the rest of the early calendar. 14 What’s Super Tuesday? Super Tuesday, March 3, is perhaps the most important single date on the primary calendar because of how many major states will be holding their elections, including California and Texas. About 40 percent of all pledged Democratic delegates will be awarded in these states. Democratic primaries on Super Tuesday ME VT MN MA CA UT CO VA OK AR TN NC TX AL Democratic primaries on Super Tuesday ME VT MN MA CA UT CO VA OK AR TN NC TX AL Democratic primaries on Super Tuesday ME VT MN MA CA UT CO VA OK AR TN NC TX AL Note: The American Samoa Democratic caucus and the Democrats Abroad primary will also be held on Super Tuesday. 15 How does someone win the Democratic nomination? A candidate hoping to win on the first ballot at the convention must secure a majority of pledged delegates, as dictated by the outcomes in state primaries and caucuses. In total, there are just under 4,000 pledged delegates up for grabs (as well as hundreds of superdelegates, though the party prefers to call them automatic delegates). The official nomination will take place at the party’s convention in Milwaukee this summer. 16 What are delegates? Delegates (the people) are political figures like activists and local leaders chosen to represent their states at the party convention. Delegates (the numbers) are the all-purpose metric of primary success, allocated proportionally according to state voting results. Generally, a candidate must exceed 15 percent of the vote in a congressional district or statewide to win delegates. AK 15 ME 24 Democratic delegates Fewer delegates More delegates VT 16 NH 24 WA 89 MT 19 ND 14 MN 75 WI 84 MI 125 NY 274 CT 60 MA 91 ID 20 OR 61 WY 14 SD 16 IA 41 IL 155 IN 82 OH 136 PA 186 NJ 126 RI 26 NV 36 CA 415 UT 29 CO 67 NE 29 KS 39 KY 54 WV 28 VA 99 DC 20 MD 96 DE 21 AZ 67 NM 34 OK 37 AR 31 MO 68 TN 64 SC 54 NC 110 TX 228 LA 54 MS 36 AL 52 GA 105 HI 24 FL 219 PR 51 Democratic delegates Fewer delegates More delegates AK ME VT NH WA MT ND MN WI MI NY CT MA ID OR WY SD IA IL IN OH PA NJ RI NV CA UT CO NE KS KY WV VA DC MD DE AZ NM OK AR MO TN SC NC TX LA MS AL GA HI FL PR Democratic delegates Fewer delegates More delegates AK ME VT NH WA MT ND MN WI MI NY CT MA ID OR WY SD IA IL IN OH PA NJ RI NV CA UT CO NE KS KY WV VA DC MD DE AZ NM OK AR MO TN SC NC TX LA MS AL GA HI FL PR Source: The Green Papers | Note: Some primaries and caucuses are not shown. Counts include pledged delegates only. 17 What are superdelegates? Didn’t they get rid of those? su·per·del·e·gate /ˈso͞opərˌdeləɡət/ noun US plural noun: superdelegates Democratic superdelegates are the political insiders, from sitting lawmakers to former senior party officials, whose primary choices can be divorced entirely from the preferences of workaday voters. Superdelegates can vote as they choose, and their very existence in 2016 became a source of major tension in the race between Hillary Clinton and Mr. Sanders. While Mrs. Clinton bested Mr. Sanders among pledged delegates in 2016, Mr. Sanders and his supporters saw the superdelegate system as an affront to the democratic process. In response, the Democratic National Committee has sharply reduced the influence of superdelegates, effectively preventing them from participating substantively in the first ballot of the presidential nominating process. But in the event of a deadlock at the convention, superdelegates could come into play. 18 Are there any history makers in the presidential election? Ms. Warren or Ms. Klobuchar (or Representative Tulsi Gabbard of Hawaii) would be the first woman elected president. Mr. Buttigieg would be the first openly gay person to hold the office. And Mr. Sanders or Mr. Bloomberg would be the first Jewish president elected. But for all the initial excitement within the party about a deep bench of candidates of color, several — including Senators Kamala Harris of California and Cory Booker of New Jersey and Julián Castro, the former federal housing secretary — have dropped out. The remaining low-polling nonwhite candidates include Deval Patrick, the former governor of Massachusetts, and Andrew Yang, a former technology executive. Then there is this bit of potential history: Mr. Sanders (78), Mr. Biden (77), Michael R. Bloomberg (77) and Ms. Warren (70) would each be the oldest president ever inaugurated for a first term. 19 Is there still a chance that a new long shot will emerge? Sure. Just not a great one. There’s a cliché in politics: “The only poll that matters is on Election Day.” But some other things that matter — staffing, fund-raising, a workable delegate strategy — are built well in advance. And many of the lower-tier candidates have been running for many, many months without catching on. A former Maryland congressman named John Delaney campaigned for president for two and a half years before dropping out in January. 20 What’s Michael Bloomberg up to? Spending a nine-figure fortune on a possibly quixotic candidacy. But he does have a plan, albeit an unusual one. Mr. Bloomberg, the former New York mayor, is effectively skipping the early nominating contests to focus on delegate-rich states that vote in March and beyond. He is already ubiquitous in television ads and has amassed a small army of staff members to sustain his bid for as long as he chooses. Yet he is lagging much of the field in the often-relevant category of “interactions with actual primary voters.” And if any candidate emerges from the February states as a clear front-runner, Mr. Bloomberg’s time-biding approach could backfire. 21 Which party has done better in fund-raising so far? Mr. Trump entered 2020 with more than $100 million in cash on hand and outpaced every Democrat with $46 million in the fourth quarter of 2019. But contenders for the Democratic nomination have cumulatively surpassed Mr. Trump’s total, suggesting intense enthusiasm. Safe to say that neither party’s nominee will go hungry this fall. Money raised in the fourth quarter of 2019 $46 million $34.5 $24.7 $22.7 $21.2 $16.5 $11.4 Money raised in the fourth quarter of 2019 $46 million $34.5 $24.7 $22.7 $21.2 $16.5 $11.4 Money raised in the fourth quarter of 2019 $46 million $34.5 $24.7 $22.7 $21.2 $16.5 $11.4 22 Which voters are Democrats targeting? Mr. Biden generally does best with older voters and African-Americans. Ms. Warren is most popular with highly educated Democrats. Mr. Sanders, despite his age, rules the young. And Mr. Buttigieg, 38, despite his age, draws much of his support from a very different demographic. Particularly after Iowa and New Hampshire, which are overwhelmingly white, candidates will be pitching themselves to a much more diverse party electorate. Several candidates, particularly Mr. Buttigieg, have struggled in polls of voters of color. But many campaigns are hopeful that strong showings in the early states will earn them a longer look. 23 What issues have dominated the race this year? Health care policy has probably been the most conspicuous, with divisions over the relative virtues of “Medicare for all” (one of Mr. Sanders’s signature issues) or a more incremental approach. Gun control has come up some, especially after the El Paso massacre last summer. Ms. Warren was often the pacesetter in attention-grabbing proposals, like her bid to break up tech giants such as Amazon and Facebook. Some candidates, like Mr. Biden and Mr. Buttigieg, have turned their attention to the more amorphous issue of national unity: They frame the election as a moment for healing, though no Democrat has identified as anti-healing, exactly. 24 Does my vote in the primaries matter? Sure, why not? Nihilism is for Nietzscheans and Knicks fans. And while the piecemeal nature of the state-by-state calendar might make the process seem less exciting than the all-in-one-day general election, the primaries do resolve the nontrivial matter of choosing major party nominees. 25 Is it O.K. for me to skip voting in the primaries and just vote in the general election? It’s allowed. Of course, candidates tend to call every election “the most important of our lifetime.” By definition, that can’t always be true. But don’t forget the down-ballot primaries, which will be of significant consequence locally in many states. 26 Can I vote in the primaries in one state and then the general election in another state? Potentially, if you time it right and change your registration by the fall. And if you happen to be that rare voter moving from an early-voting primary state like New Hampshire to a November swing state like Pennsylvania, well, enjoy the attention. 27 Do I need to be registered to vote in the primaries? Forty-nine states require voter registration. (North Dakota, you incorrigible contrarians.) Deadlines can be found here. 28 Do I need a government-issued ID? Requirements vary by state. Here’s a detailed rundown. 29 What if I was removed in a voter purge? Those worried about their status can check here. 30 Can I vote over the Internet? Generally, no. Some states allow it in certain (often narrowly defined) circumstances. 31 Are Russians going to interfere again? The intelligence community is certainly bracing for it. Despite the president’s longstanding doubts about the intelligence consensus on Russian interference in 2016, officials have warned that a sequel of sorts is in the works. After detecting evidence of Russian influence efforts in 2018, Christopher A. Wray, the F.B.I. director, said last year that he viewed the attempts as “kind of a dress rehearsal for the big show in 2020.” 32 How can I tell this year if Trump’s chances of winning re-election are increasing? Historically, the health of the economy is a useful indicator. So are approval ratings. But consulting precedent can be complicated where Mr. Trump is concerned. On the one hand, his party suffered steep midterm losses in 2018 despite low unemployment and many positive economic trends. On the other, Mr. Trump won in 2016 despite often dismal favorability scores. Whether he can repeat the feat might come down to this: Was Mrs. Clinton a uniquely unpopular nominee? Or will any Democrat eventually look beatable once the president and his allies have a single opponent to attack every day? 33 Should I trust the polls after 2016? Yes and no. Imperfect polls (which is to say, all of them) are still far more instructive than none at all, if contextualized with care. And while Mr. Trump’s 2016 success in states like Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Michigan was a surprise, the popular vote margin — Mrs. Clinton by a couple of points — was consistent with much of the late-stage national polling. But of course, the only bulletproof prediction through political history is that people who make political predictions will keep getting things wrong sometimes. 34 Are we going to be O.K.? Were we ever, really? 35 When is this all over? It’s probably best not to think about that. Days Hours Minutes Seconds ::: Time left until General Election Sources: The campaigns (campaign finance); The Green Papers (election calendar and delegate numbers); Ballotpedia (canceled primaries) Sources: The campaigns (campaign finance); The Green Papers (election calendar and delegate numbers); Ballotpedia (canceled primaries). Additional work by Isabella Grullón Paz. Advertisement Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions