https://www.facebook.com/nytpolitics/posts/?ref=page_internal
NYT Politics - Posts | Facebook
Jump to Sections of this page Accessibility Help Press alt + / to open this menu Facebook Email or Phone Password Forgot account? Home About Videos Posts Photos Events Community See more of NYT Politics on Facebook Log In orCreate New Account See more of NYT Politics on Facebook Log In Forgot account? orCreate New Account Not Now English (US) · Español · Português (Brasil) · Français (France) · Deutsch Privacy · Terms · Advertising · Ad Choices · Cookies · More Facebook © 2020 NYT Politics 23 hrs · As health experts have gained more experience with Covid-19, the CDC has now expanded the list of symptoms associated with the disease. President Trump unveiled a plan on Monday to ramp up testing capacity nationwide, but his proposal ran far short of what most public health experts say is necessary. Follow along for the latest updates on the coronavirus: At least a dozen U.S. states forged ahead with a variety of strategies to ease restrictions. Rhode Island’s testing strategy helps discover infections that might have gone overlooked elsewhere. The relief program for small businesses faltered again. nytimes.com Coronavirus Live Updates: Trump’s Plan to Expand Testing Falls Short, Experts Warn At least a dozen U.S. states forged ahead with a variety of strategies to ease restrictions. Rhode Island’s testing strategy helps discover infections that might have gone overlooked elsewhere. The relief program for small businesses faltered again. At least a dozen U.S. states forged ahead with a variety of strategies to ease restrictions. Rhode Island’s testing strategy helps discover infections that might have gone overlooked elsewhere. The relief program for small businesses faltered again. NYT Politics 25 mins · With more and more states ready to resume some semblance of normal life, the messages from President Donald J. Trump and his administration at times have sounded contradictory and confusing. The president said the coronavirus wouldn’t come back while Dr. Anthony Fauci said it would be “a bad fall” and the attorney general threatened to sue states for enforcing restrictions. nytimes.com Trump Administration’s Message on Reopening Continues to Be Contradictory The president said the coronavirus wouldn’t come back while Dr. Anthony Fauci said it would be “a bad fall” and the attorney general threatened to sue states for enforcing restrictions. The president said the coronavirus wouldn’t come back while Dr. Anthony Fauci said it would be “a bad fall” and the attorney general threatened to sue states for enforcing restrictions. NYT Politics 10 hrs · With the nation largely on lockdown because of the coronavirus and possibilities for mass protests constrained, friends and family members of a black man, Ahmaud Arbery, who was unarmed when he was shot dead by a white man, said they worry no one would be held to account for his death. Mr. Arbery, a 25-year-old black man, was chased by armed white residents of a South Georgia neighborhood. He was shot dead during a confrontation. nytimes.com What We Know About the Shooting Death of Ahmaud Arbery Mr. Arbery, a 25-year-old black man, was chased by armed white residents of a South Georgia neighborhood. He was shot dead during a confrontation. Mr. Arbery, a 25-year-old black man, was chased by armed white residents of a South Georgia neighborhood. He was shot dead during a confrontation. NYT Politics 11 hrs · After weeks without classes, a growing impatience to send children back to school has taken hold among many parents, students and even President Trump, who suggested to governors that some might consider reopening before the end of the academic year. Most districts have no plans to end online lessons soon, and reopening will bring significant changes, educators say. nytimes.com Despite Trump’s Nudging, Schools Are Likely to Stay Shut for Months Most districts have no plans to end online lessons soon, and reopening will bring significant changes, educators say. Most districts have no plans to end online lessons soon, and reopening will bring significant changes, educators say. NYT Politics 12 hrs · Democratic leaders scrapped a plan to call the House of Representatives back into session in Washington next week, an abrupt reversal after some rank-and-file lawmakers complained that it constituted an unnecessary risk as coronavirus continues to spread. With no legislative work scheduled, some rank-and-file lawmakers protested and the Capitol physician warned that a return to Washington carried health risks. nytimes.com Under Pressure, House Leaders Scrap Plans for Speedy Return to the Capitol With no legislative work scheduled, some rank-and-file lawmakers protested and the Capitol physician warned that a return to Washington carried health risks. With no legislative work scheduled, some rank-and-file lawmakers protested and the Capitol physician warned that a return to Washington carried health risks. NYT Politics 13 hrs · The Pentagon released three Navy videos that have driven speculation about UFOs for years, saying it meant to “clear up any misconceptions" about whether the footage was real or complete. But what the videos show? The government isn’t so sure there. On Monday, the Department of Defense formally released three Navy videos that contain “unidentified aerial phenomena.” Enthusiasts were encouraged, though there was nothing new. nytimes.com The Pentagon Released U.F.O. Videos. Don’t Hold Your Breath for a Breakthrough. On Monday, the Department of Defense formally released three Navy videos that contain “unidentified aerial phenomena.” Enthusiasts were encouraged, though there was nothing new. On Monday, the Department of Defense formally released three Navy videos that contain “unidentified aerial phenomena.” Enthusiasts were encouraged, though there was nothing new. NYT Politics 14 hrs · Former top advisers to Senator Bernie Sanders are forming a super PAC to try to rally progressive support for Joe Biden’s 2020 campaign. But Sanders himself has has railed for years against super PACs, which can accepted unlimited donations. Mr. Sanders’s 2016 campaign manager and another architect of the 2016 bid are joining together in an effort to rally progressive support for the former vice president ahead of the November election. nytimes.com Former Aides to Bernie Sanders Form a Super PAC to Support Joe Biden Mr. Sanders’s 2016 campaign manager and another architect of the 2016 bid are joining together in an effort to rally progressive support for the former vice president ahead of the November election. Mr. Sanders’s 2016 campaign manager and another architect of the 2016 bid are joining together in an effort to rally progressive support for the former vice president ahead of the November election. NYT Politics 15 hrs · President Trump plans to sign an executive order to keep meat processing plants open. But unions said more needed to be done to protect workers. https://nyti.ms/3cVP9Rv The executive order is aimed at preventing shortages of pork, chicken and other products by ensuring that meat processing facilities remain open despite a risk of coronavirus outbreaks. nytimes.com Trump Plans to Sign Order to Secure Meat Supply The executive order is aimed at preventing shortages of pork, chicken and other products by ensuring that meat processing facilities remain open despite a risk of coronavirus outbreaks. The executive order is aimed at preventing shortages of pork, chicken and other products by ensuring that meat processing facilities remain open despite a risk of coronavirus outbreaks. NYT Politics 15 hrs · Efforts to quickly restart economic activity risk dividing Americans into two groups: one that has the power to control its exposure to the coronavirus and one forced to choose between potential sickness or financial ruin. The coronavirus recession has exacerbated the racial and income divides in America. Lifting restrictions too soon will make them worse and leave workers with a bleak choice. nytimes.com Job or Health? Restarting the Economy Threatens to Worsen Economic Inequality The coronavirus recession has exacerbated the racial and income divides in America. Lifting restrictions too soon will make them worse and leave workers with a bleak choice. The coronavirus recession has exacerbated the racial and income divides in America. Lifting restrictions too soon will make them worse and leave workers with a bleak choice. NYT Politics 16 hrs · News Analysis: "Mr. Trump has repeatedly contradicted medical experts in favor of his own judgment. But a disregard for scientific advice has been a defining characteristic of Mr. Trump’s administration." The president’s Covid-19 response has extended the administration’s longstanding practice of undermining scientific expertise for political purposes. nytimes.com Trump’s Response to Virus Reflects a Long Disregard for Science The president’s Covid-19 response has extended the administration’s longstanding practice of undermining scientific expertise for political purposes. The president’s Covid-19 response has extended the administration’s longstanding practice of undermining scientific expertise for political purposes. NYT Politics 17 hrs · In recent months, as lawmakers have pushed the Marine Corps to combine men and women in the same training platoons, just how the Corps will make Marines is the latest struggle for its identity. Keeping men and women in separate platoons during recruit training is the last stand for the Marine Corps, which has been slow to move toward gender integration. nytimes.com The Marine Corps Battles for Its Identity, Over Women in Boot Camp Keeping men and women in separate platoons during recruit training is the last stand for the Marine Corps, which has been slow to move toward gender integration. Keeping men and women in separate platoons during recruit training is the last stand for the Marine Corps, which has been slow to move toward gender integration. NYT Politics 18 hrs · Business lobbyists and executives are pushing the Trump administration and Congress to shield American companies from a wide range of potential lawsuits related to reopening the economy amid the coronavirus pandemic. A new legal and political front is coming into view as the nation starts to ease public health limits that have crippled the economy: Will business owners fear lawsuits and stay closed anyway? nytimes.com Businesses Seek Sweeping Shield From Pandemic Liability Before They Reopen A new legal and political front is coming into view as the nation starts to ease public health limits that have crippled the economy: Will business owners fear lawsuits and stay closed anyway? A new legal and political front is coming into view as the nation starts to ease public health limits that have crippled the economy: Will business owners fear lawsuits and stay closed anyway? NYT Politics 19 hrs · Hillary Clinton is endorsing Joe Biden today. Their relationship hasn’t always been easy, but both want Democrats more united than they were in 2016. The expected announcement by the 2016 Democratic presidential nominee follows ones from Barack Obama, Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren as the party tries to show its unity. nytimes.com Hillary Clinton to Endorse Joe Biden The expected announcement by the 2016 Democratic presidential nominee follows ones from Barack Obama, Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren as the party tries to show its unity. The expected announcement by the 2016 Democratic presidential nominee follows ones from Barack Obama, Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren as the party tries to show its unity. NYT Politics 20 hrs · Just two weeks into her new job, White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany's defense of President Trump and castigations of the press appear to be unperturbed by her boss' shifting narratives, breaks from logic and flights of fantasy. Kayleigh McEnany saw Donald J. Trump as her ticket to stardom. She has been fighting for him for much of her adult life, now as the president’s fourth press secretary. nytimes.com In Kayleigh McEnany, Trump Taps a Press Fighter for the Coronavirus Era Kayleigh McEnany saw Donald J. Trump as her ticket to stardom. She has been fighting for him for much of her adult life, now as the president’s fourth press secretary. Kayleigh McEnany saw Donald J. Trump as her ticket to stardom. She has been fighting for him for much of her adult life, now as the president’s fourth press secretary. NYT Politics 21 hrs · The coronavirus crisis has made Ohio's Republican governor something that decades in elected offices never did: a household name. Mike DeWine, a low-key career politician, has followed health experts’ guidance as Ohio confronts the coronavirus. His constituents are overwhelmingly appreciative. nytimes.com Ohio’s G.O.P. Governor Splits From Trump, and Rises in Popularity Mike DeWine, a low-key career politician, has followed health experts’ guidance as Ohio confronts the coronavirus. His constituents are overwhelmingly appreciative. Mike DeWine, a low-key career politician, has followed health experts’ guidance as Ohio confronts the coronavirus. His constituents are overwhelmingly appreciative. NYT Politics 21 hrs · A real-time public opinion testing project called "Barometer" has been the ongoing obsession of James Barnes, the former Facebook employee who was heralded as an “M.V.P.” of the 2016 Trump campaign. Now he has dedicated his professional life to undoing the results of the last presidential election. A former Facebook employee is using a tool he employed to help President Trump win to conduct tests for a progressive group, Acronym, dedicated to ousting Mr. Trump from office. nytimes.com How a Digital Ad Strategy That Helped Trump Is Being Used Against Him A former Facebook employee is using a tool he employed to help President Trump win to conduct tests for a progressive group, Acronym, dedicated to ousting Mr. Trump from office. A former Facebook employee is using a tool he employed to help President Trump win to conduct tests for a progressive group, Acronym, dedicated to ousting Mr. Trump from office. NYT Politics 22 hrs · President Donald J. Trump’s public statements about using disinfectants to potentially treat the coronavirus have put him in the company of pseudoscientists and purveyors of phony elixirs who promote and sell industrial bleach as a “miracle cure.” Doctors and public health officials fear the attention could boost purveyors of dangerous elixirs who push ‘miracle cures’ with no basis in science. nytimes.com Trump Disinfectant Remarks Echo Claims by Miracle-Cure Quacks Doctors and public health officials fear the attention could boost purveyors of dangerous elixirs who push ‘miracle cures’ with no basis in science. Doctors and public health officials fear the attention could boost purveyors of dangerous elixirs who push ‘miracle cures’ with no basis in science. NYT Politics Yesterday at 5:33 AM · President Donald J. Trump, under growing pressure to expand coronavirus testing as states move to reopen their economies, unveiled a new plan to ramp up help to states. His proposal runs far short of what most public health experts say is necessary. The president’s announcement came after weeks of him insisting that states had plenty of tests. nytimes.com Trump Vows More Coronavirus Testing, but Less Than What May Be Needed The president’s announcement came after weeks of him insisting that states had plenty of tests. The president’s announcement came after weeks of him insisting that states had plenty of tests. NYT Politics Yesterday at 4:33 AM · Lawmakers and state officials say the Trump administration is unreasonably restricting how local governments can spend federal aid as they struggle to stay afloat during the pandemic. Lawmakers and other officials are seeking more flexibility in spending federal emergency aid even as Republicans resist allocating more dollars. nytimes.com Officials Say Limits on Virus Relief Funds for States Are Too Tight Lawmakers and other officials are seeking more flexibility in spending federal emergency aid even as Republicans resist allocating more dollars. Lawmakers and other officials are seeking more flexibility in spending federal emergency aid even as Republicans resist allocating more dollars. See More