https://www.facebook.com/nytimesscience/?ref=py_c
The New York Times - Science - Home | Facebook
Jump to Sections of this page Accessibility Help Press alt + / to open this menu Facebook Email or Phone Password Forgot account? Home About Posts Videos Photos Events Notes Community See more of The New York Times - Science on Facebook Log In orCreate New Account See more of The New York Times - Science on Facebook Log In Forgot account? orCreate New Account Not Now CommunitySee All 1,223,986 people like this 1,240,835 people follow this AboutSee All Contact The New York Times - Science on Messenger nytimes.com/science Science Website Page TransparencySee More Facebook is showing information to help you better understand the purpose of a Page. See actions taken by the people who manage and post content. Confirmed Page Owner: New York Times Co People 1,223,986 likes Related Pages The New York Times Media/News Company Science Science Website Washington Post Broadcasting & Media Production Company BBC Science News News & Media Website The Economist Media/News Company The New York Times Opinion Section News & Media Website New Scientist Media/News Company Scientific American News & Media Website The New York Times en Español Media/News Company Travel Insider Media/News Company Discover Magazine Magazine The Guardian Media/News Company CNN Media/News Company Science News Magazine Magazine London University Community College Popular Science Magazine The New Yorker Magazine The Wall Street Journal Media/News Company ABC Science Science Website WIRED Science Science Website See Moretriangle-down Pages Liked by This Page TED Science Friday National Radio Astronomy Observatory (NRAO) Brown University Current Biology Popular Science Science Physics Today (College Park, MD) WIRED ScienceBlogs NOAA NWS Space Weather Prediction Center US National Weather Service Norman Oklahoma Scientific American NASA Exoplanets Nature The New York Times Shedd Aquarium U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) The New York Times - Well - Health National Institutes of Health (NIH) See Moretriangle-down PagesOtherBrandWebsiteScience WebsiteThe New York Times - Science English (US) · Español · Português (Brasil) · Français (France) · Deutsch Privacy · Terms · Advertising · Ad Choices · Cookies · More Facebook © 2020 Posts The New York Times - Science April 19 at 4:42 PM · "If we scrupulously protect ourselves and our loved ones, more of us will live. If we underestimate the virus, it will find us." There will be no quick return to our previous lives, according to nearly two dozen experts. But there is hope for managing the scourge now and in the long term. nytimes.com The Coronavirus in America: The Year Ahead There will be no quick return to our previous lives, according to nearly two dozen experts. But there is hope for managing the scourge now and in the long term. There will be no quick return to our previous lives, according to nearly two dozen experts. But there is hope for managing the scourge now and in the long term. The New York Times - Science 36 mins · “Donald Trump is the most anti-science and anti-environment president we’ve ever had,” said Douglas Brinkley, a presidential historian at Rice University. The president’s actions, he said, have eroded one of the United States’s most enviable assets: the government’s deep scientific expertise, built over decades. The president’s Covid-19 response has extended the administration’s longstanding practice of undermining scientific expertise for political purposes. nytimes.com Trump’s Response to Virus Reflects a Long Disregard for Science The president’s Covid-19 response has extended the administration’s longstanding practice of undermining scientific expertise for political purposes. The president’s Covid-19 response has extended the administration’s longstanding practice of undermining scientific expertise for political purposes. See All Videos Detecting Kilonova Explosions 3.2K 187 Fast and Light to Pluto 112 7 Drug companies earned billions in profit treating rare diseases, often charging millions of dollars a year for just one patient. Katie Thomas and Reed Abelson investigate the growing market for ultra-costly, life-changing drugs that few patients — not to mention their health plans — can afford. #TheWeeklyNYT on FX Networks on Sunday and Hulu on Monday -- https://nyti.ms/2ze5v66 47 7 See All See More