https://www.facebook.com/nprpolitics/?ref=py_c
NPR Politics - Home | Facebook
Jump to Sections of this page Accessibility Help Press alt + / to open this menu Facebook Email or Phone Password Forgot account? Home About Posts Photos Videos Events Community Groups See more of NPR Politics on Facebook Log In orCreate New Account See more of NPR Politics on Facebook Log In Forgot account? orCreate New Account Not Now CommunitySee All 450,338 people like this 469,894 people follow this AboutSee All www.npr.org/politics Nonprofit Organization · Broadcasting & Media Production Company Page TransparencySee More Facebook is showing information to help you better understand the purpose of a Page. See actions taken by the people who manage and post content. Confirmed Page Owner: National Public Radio, Inc. People 450,338 likes Related Pages NPR Broadcasting & Media Production Company Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez Government Official Obama Foundation Nonprofit Organization The Late Show with Stephen Colbert TV Show POLITICO Media/News Company PBS NewsHour Broadcasting & Media Production Company PBS TV Network NPR All Things Considered Broadcasting & Media Production Company NPR Music Media/News Company NPR Books Arts & Humanities Website NPR Live News & Media Website Fox News Media/News Company TED-Ed Education Website CNN Media/News Company Washington Post Broadcasting & Media Production Company Occupy Democrats Political Organization Donald J. Trump Political Candidate Full Frontal with Samantha Bee TV Show Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez Interest Alt National Park Service Cause See Moretriangle-down Pages Liked by This Page Domenico Montanaro PagesBusinessesNonprofit OrganizationNPR Politics English (US) · Español · Português (Brasil) · Français (France) · Deutsch Privacy · Terms · Advertising · Ad Choices · Cookies · More Facebook © 2020 Posts NPR Politics 14 hrs · Despite massive outbreaks of the coronavirus at meat production plants across the country, President Trump is set to invoke the Defense Production Act to ensure those plants keep running. President Trump will invoke the Defense Production Act to ensure plants keep running. Workers have said they need more protection after illnesses and deaths on the line. npr.org Trump Plans To Beef Up Meat Production After Coronavirus Hits Plants President Trump will invoke the Defense Production Act to ensure plants keep running. Workers have said they need more protection after illnesses and deaths on the line. President Trump will invoke the Defense Production Act to ensure plants keep running. Workers have said they need more protection after illnesses and deaths on the line. NPR Politics 15 hrs · Despite partisan divides among elected officials, Americans overwhelmingly support universal access to voting by mail, according to a new poll. Despite a partisan divide over increasing absentee voting, about half of all Republicans support universal access to a mail ballot, according a new Pew Research poll. npr.org New Poll: Americans Overwhelmingly Support Mail Voting Amid Pandemic Despite a partisan divide over increasing absentee voting, about half of all Republicans support universal access to a mail ballot, according a new Pew Research poll. Despite a partisan divide over increasing absentee voting, about half of all Republicans support universal access to a mail ballot, according a new Pew Research poll. See All Photos See All See More