https://www.facebook.com/nytimesstyles/?ref=py_c
The New York Times Styles - Home | Facebook
Jump to Sections of this page Accessibility Help Press alt + / to open this menu Facebook Email or Phone Password Forgot account? Home Posts About Photos Events Community Videos See more of The New York Times Styles on Facebook Log In orCreate New Account See more of The New York Times Styles on Facebook Log In Forgot account? orCreate New Account Not Now CommunitySee All 191,387 people like this 194,605 people follow this AboutSee All Contact The New York Times Styles on Messenger www.nytimes.com/style Media/News Company Page TransparencySee More Facebook is showing information to help you better understand the purpose of a Page. See actions taken by the people who manage and post content. Confirmed Page Owner: New York Times Co People 191,387 likes Related Pages The New York Times Media/News Company The New York Times - Science Science Website T: The New York Times Style Magazine Society & Culture Website The New York Times Opinion Section News & Media Website The New York Times - Travel Product/Service The New York Times Books Media/News Company The New York Times en Español Media/News Company The New York Times - Well - Health Health & Wellness Website Alexander McQueen Clothing (Brand) The New York Times - Lens - Photography News & Media Website NYT Politics Media/News Company NYT Cooking Kitchen/Cooking DKNY Clothing (Brand) KARL LAGERFELD Clothing (Brand) New York Today Media/News Company New York Magazine News & Media Website The Business of Fashion News & Media Website The New York Times - Modern Love News & Media Website The Cut News & Media Website The New York Times Chinese -Traditional 紐約時報中文網 Media/News Company See Moretriangle-down Pages Liked by This Page T: The New York Times Style Magazine NYT Cooking PagesBusinessesMedia/News CompanyThe New York Times Styles English (US) · Español · Português (Brasil) · Français (France) · Deutsch Privacy · Terms · Advertising · Ad Choices · Cookies · More Facebook © 2020 Posts The New York Times Styles 15 hrs · "We met on a train from Paris to Barcelona. Sitting next to one another, we argued over who could use the power outlet. 'Désolé, je crois que c’est a moi.' ('Sorry, I think it’s mine.') Instant crush. A perfect, flirtatious, six hours. The beginning of our love story? We agreed to meet back in Paris: On March 19, I’d wait for his train at the Gare de Lyon railway station. We didn’t know that coronavirus would confine us in different countries. Trusting in the power of the u...niverse, we hadn’t exchanged mobile numbers. Sometimes, a romantic plan isn’t enough." — Cecilia Pesao See More Modern Love in miniature, featuring reader-submitted stories of no more than 100 words. nytimes.com Tiny Love Stories: ‘Sometimes a Romantic Plan Isn’t Enough’ Modern Love in miniature, featuring reader-submitted stories of no more than 100 words. Modern Love in miniature, featuring reader-submitted stories of no more than 100 words. The New York Times Styles April 25 at 1:35 PM · The couple, who had postponed their April 25 because of the coronavirus outbreak, were married April 4 by the pastor of the church where they’d met, via an online connection. Amanda Jane Cooper and Andrew Bell met at church, and then married in New York when the coronavirus seemed likely to foil their wedding plans. nytimes.com Scene 1: City Hall. Scene 2: Rooftop Overlooking City. Amanda Jane Cooper and Andrew Bell met at church, and then married in New York when the coronavirus seemed likely to foil their wedding plans. Amanda Jane Cooper and Andrew Bell met at church, and then married in New York when the coronavirus seemed likely to foil their wedding plans. See All Photos See All See More