https://www.facebook.com/latimes/?ref=py_c
Los Angeles Times - Home | Facebook
Jump to Sections of this page Accessibility Help Press alt + / to open this menu Facebook Email or Phone Password Forgot account? Home Posts Videos Photos Groups About Community Notes Events See more of Los Angeles Times on Facebook Log In orCreate New Account See more of Los Angeles Times on Facebook Log In Forgot account? orCreate New Account Not Now CommunitySee All 2,893,529 people like this 2,880,781 people follow this AboutSee All (213) 283-2274 Contact Los Angeles Times on Messenger www.latimes.com Media/News Company · Newspaper Page TransparencySee More Facebook is showing information to help you better understand the purpose of a Page. See actions taken by the people who manage and post content. Confirmed Page Owner: ZACHARIAH CULMER FRANKLIN People 2,893,529 likes Related Pages The New York Times Media/News Company Washington Post Broadcasting & Media Production Company The Wall Street Journal Media/News Company USA TODAY Media/News Company CNN Media/News Company Fox News Media/News Company ABC News TV Network New York Post Newspaper Discover Los Angeles Local & Travel Website U.S. Department of State Government Organization New York Magazine News & Media Website Fox 11 Los Angeles Broadcasting & Media Production Company NBC News Broadcasting & Media Production Company Lowe's Home Improvement Home Improvement United Nations Organization KTLA 5 News News & Media Website CBS Los Angeles Broadcasting & Media Production Company CNN Politics Media/News Company Los Angeles Times News & Media Website LAist Media/News Company See Moretriangle-down Pages Liked by This Page Michael Shermer Los Angeles Times Classic Hollywood | Los Angeles Times Los Angeles Times L.A. Times Food Los Angeles Times Entertainment Los Angeles Times Entertainment Los Angeles Times Opinion Hot Property - Los Angeles Times Los Angeles Times Photography, Video and Multimedia Jonathan Gold Los Angeles Times See Moretriangle-down PagesBusinessesMedia/News CompanyLos Angeles Times English (US) · Español · Português (Brasil) · Français (France) · Deutsch Privacy · Terms · Advertising · Ad Choices · Cookies · More Facebook © 2020 Posts Los Angeles Times 1 min · Los Angeles County passed another grim coronavirus milestone Tuesday with more than 1,000 deaths even as officials begin preparing for when stay-at-home rules could ease and the economy could restart. California reopening: Talk of restarting economy grows in L.A. and Orange County despite rising death toll latimes.com Talk of reopening grows in L.A. and Orange County despite rising coronavirus death toll California reopening: Talk of restarting economy grows in L.A. and Orange County despite rising death toll California reopening: Talk of restarting economy grows in L.A. and Orange County despite rising death toll Los Angeles Times 9 mins · British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and his partner, Carrie Symonds, who both were struck by COVID-19, have announced the birth of their baby boy. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and his partner, Carrie Symonds, who both were struck by COVID-19, have announced the birth of their son. latimes.com British leader Boris Johnson, partner announce birth of boy British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and his partner, Carrie Symonds, who both were struck by COVID-19, have announced the birth of their son. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and his partner, Carrie Symonds, who both were struck by COVID-19, have announced the birth of their son. See All Videos Glowing blue waves roll into the South Bay. The culprit: bioluminescence 63 11 Newsom chastises beachgoers 917 545 An epidemic of hate: anti-Asian hate crimes amid coronavirus 37 144 See All Photos See All See More