https://www.facebook.com/nytpolitics/videos/790304704735647/
NYT Politics - The Democratic Debate: Watch the Highlights | Facebook
Jump to Sections of this page Accessibility Help Press alt + / to open this menu Facebook Email or Phone Password Forgot account? Sign Up Related Videos 2:58 Watch the Aftermath of the Raid that Killed the Leader of ISIS NYT Politics 13K views · October 28, 2019 3:09 Watch: Highlights From the Third Democratic Debate NYT Politics 89K views · September 16, 2019 2:22 18 Candidates. 72 Hours. A Hectic Weekend at the Iowa State Fair. NYT Politics 14K views · August 14, 2019 3:32 16,000 Readers Shared Their Experiences of Being Told to ‘Go Back.’ NYT Politics 133K views · July 21, 2019 5:12 How Kim Jong-un Smuggled Mercedes to North Korea NYT Politics 102K views · July 18, 2019 2:39 Who Is Jeffrey Epstein? The Financier Embroiled in an Underage Sex Scandal NYT Politics 69K views · July 14, 2019 4:16 With a Diploma in Hand, a Former Inmate Gets a Second Chance at Life NYT Politics 75K views · July 8, 2019 3:02 Highlights From Night Two of the Democratic Debate NYT Politics 67K views · June 30, 2019 3:03 Highlights From the First Democratic Debate NYT Politics 103K views · June 30, 2019 Related PagesSee All The New York Times 17,194,732 Followers · Media/News Company The New York Times Opinion Section 759,192 Followers · News & Media Website Washington Post Politics 590,367 Followers · Newspaper The New York Times - Science 1,240,835 Followers · Science Website The Economist 9,252,587 Followers · Media/News Company The New York Times Books 206,135 Followers · Media/News Company NPR Politics 469,894 Followers · Nonprofit Organization CNN Politics 2,921,410 Followers · Media/News Company New York Today 225,922 Followers · Media/News Company POLITICO 1,926,399 Followers · Media/News Company The Daily Beast 2,036,788 Followers · News & Media Website Washington Post 6,565,015 Followers · Broadcasting & Media Production Company Video Transcript “This is the CNN/New York Times Democratic presidential debate.” “Sometimes there are issues that are bigger than politics. And I think that’s the case with this impeachment inquiry.” “In my judgment, Trump is the most corrupt president in the history of this country.” “He has committed crimes in plain sight. And on this issue with Ukraine, he has been selling out our democracy.” “I want to give a reality check here to Elizabeth, because no one on this stage wants to protect billionaires. Not even the billionaire wants to protect billionaires. We just have different approaches. Your idea is not the only idea.” “You have not specified how you’re going to pay for the most expensive plan, ‘Medicare for all.’ Will you raise taxes on the middle class?” “I have made clear what my principles are here. And that is: Costs will go up for the wealthy and for big corporations. And for hard-working middle-class families, costs will go down.” “A yes-or-no question that didn’t get a yes-or-no answer.” “Senator Warren, I just want to say that I was surprised to hear that you did not agree with me that on this subject of what should be the rules around corporate responsibility for these big tech companies, when I called on Twitter to suspend Donald Trump’s account that you did not agree. And I would urge you to join me.” “Sometimes I think that Senator Warren is more focused on being punitive or pitting some part of the country against the other.” “I’m really shocked at the notion that anyone thinks I’m punitive. Look, I don’t have a beef with billionaires. We need a wealth tax in order to make investments in the next generation.” “If it’s not O.K. for a president’s family to be involved in foreign businesses, why was it O.K. for your son when you were vice president?” “Look, my son did nothing wrong. I did nothing wrong. Rudy Giuliani, the president and his thugs have already proven that they, in fact, are flat lying.” “What has happened in Syria is yet again Donald Trump selling folks out. And that’s why dude gotta go. And when I am commander in chief, we will stop this madness.” “Donald Trump has the blood of the Kurds on his hand. But so do many of the politicians in our country from both parties who have supported this ongoing regime-change war in Syria that started in 2011.” “I think that is dead wrong. The slaughter going on in Syria is not a consequence of American presence. It’s a consequence of a withdrawal and a betrayal. And when I was deployed, I knew one of the things keeping me safe was the fact that the flag on my shoulder represented a country known to keep its word.” “Think about how absurd it is that this president is caging kids on the border and effectively letting ISIS prisoners run free.” “We have ISIS — it’s going to come here. They are going to, in fact, damage the United States of America. That’s why we got involved in the first place.” “Protect small business and protect consumers.” “They don’t know how this is going to affect their jobs.” “This is a disease of capitalism run amok.” “Have a 15-member court.” “Police violence is also gun violence.” “Women are the majority of the population in this country. People need to keep their hands off of women’s bodies and let women make the decisions about their own lives.” “Thank you, senator.” “I’m going to say something that is probably going to offend some people here, but I’m the only one on this stage who’s gotten anything really big done.” “But you know what you also got done? And I say this as a good friend. You got the disastrous war in Iraq done. You got a bankruptcy bill, which is hurting middle-class families all over this country. You got trade agreements like Nafta, P.N.T.R. with China done, which have cost us 4 million jobs.” “So you started this question with how you got something done. You know, following the financial crash of 2008, I had an idea for a consumer agency.” “And I went on the floor and got you votes. I got votes for that bill. I convinced people to vote for it. So let’s get those things straight, too.” “Senator Warren, do you want to respond?” “I am deeply grateful to President Obama, who fought so hard to make sure that agency was passed into law.” “You did a hell of a job in your job.” “Thank you.” “Now to the issue of candidates and their health.” “I’m feeling great, but I would like to respond to that question.” “Well, I want to —— I want to start by saying ——” “And Senator Sanders is in favor of medical marijuana. I want to make sure that’s clear as well.” “I do. I’m not on it tonight.” PagesBusinessesMedia/News CompanyNYT PoliticsVideosThe Democratic Debate: Watch the Highlights