https://nytimes.com
The New York Times - Breaking News, World News & Multimedia
Continue reading the main story Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index English Español 中文 Today’s Paper World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Opinion Tech Science Health Sports Arts Books Style Food Travel Magazine T Magazine Real Estate Video World U.S. Politics N.Y. Business Opinion Tech Science Health Sports Arts Books Style Food Travel Magazine T Magazine Real Estate Video Your Wednesday Briefing Here’s what you need to know. Listen to ‘The Daily’ We spoke to both the governor and a protester in Michigan. The Book Review Podcast Jon Mooallem talks about his new book, “This Is Chance!” U.S. Economy Shrank for 1st Time in a Decade, With Worse to Come 4.8% Rate Decline in Quarter, Mostly Before Virus Impact Was Felt It was the biggest contraction since the 2008 financial crisis. Global stocks were mixed as investors awaited more indications of how well the world was recovering from the coronavirus outbreak. Airbus reported a loss of more than $500 million. Follow our updates here. live 33 comments How new cases are changing by day Jan. 22 Apr. 27 7-day average United States » 1,012,578 total cases Italy » 201,505 U.K. » 161,145 Brazil » 73,235 Canada » 50,015 India » 31,332 See the full world map of cases Select a state Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming S&P 500 Dow S&P 500 Brooklyn Dave Sanders for The New York Times Manhattan James Estrin/The New York Times Grañen, Spain Alvaro Calvo/Getty Images Nantes, France Loic Venance/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images Athens Costas Baltas/Reuters Jakarta, Indonesia Dita Alangkara/Associated Press Los Angeles Matt Winkelmeyer/Getty Images Barcelona, Spain Marta Perez/EPA, via Shutterstock Manila Jes Aznar for The New York Times World Cases U.S. Cases Markets Photos U.S. Coronavirus Death Toll Is Higher Than Reported, C.D.C. Data Suggests In seven hard-hit states, total deaths are nearly 50 percent higher than normal, according to new statistics. ‘Will You Help Save My Brother?’: The Scramble to Find Covid-19 Plasma Donors A doctor stricken with Covid-19 was running out of options. His family mounted a search for a donor whose plasma might help. 30 comments Live Updates 2 minutes ago U.S. 100 days, one million confirmed infections, and a country transformed. New C.D.C. statistics reveal more about the true death toll. A report on the U.S. economy is going to be bad, and the Fed is weighing further interventions. Global Pandemic forces a rethinking of summer plans and immunization programs. Faith in the central government fractures over France’s coronavirus response. Across Europe, a struggle to save the summer vacation. New York A Hasidic funeral in Brooklyn drew a huge crowd, and the mayor’s wrath. Governor Cuomo called the sight of homeless people sleeping on the subway ‘disgusting.’ Far from home, nurses from other states fight on New York’s front lines. Free access to our coronavirus coverage New coronavirus symptoms See each state’s status What to cook this week New York De Blasio Breaks Up Rabbi’s Funeral and Lashes Out Over Social Distancing After overseeing the dispersal of hundreds of Hasidic mourners in Brooklyn, Mayor Bill de Blasio called the gathering “absolutely unacceptable.” 110 comments Police officers on Bedford Avenue in the Williamsburg neighborhood of Brooklyn, N.Y., after a large funeral crowd was dispersed on Tuesday. Jonah Markowitz for The New York Times When New York Needed Hospital Space, Film Location Scouts Pitched In Enterprising artists, photographers and students are using their unique skills to help the city through the pandemic. Building sites in New York City are reopening, a sign of life gearing back up. Police officers on Bedford Avenue in the Williamsburg neighborhood of Brooklyn, N.Y., after a large funeral crowd was dispersed on Tuesday. Jonah Markowitz for The New York Times United States Despite Trump’s Nudging, Schools Are Likely to Stay Shut for Months Most districts have no plans to end online lessons soon, and reopening will bring significant changes, educators say. 48 comments An empty playground at Kent Middle School in Kentfield, Calif. Only a few states are considering the possibility of reopening schools before the summer break. Justin Sullivan/Getty Images Biggest Mall Operator in U.S. Plans to Reopen 49 of Them In a memo, Simon Property Group laid out how it planned to open the properties in 10 states between Friday and Monday. 77 comments Trump Declares Meat Supply ‘Critical,’ Aiming to Reopen Plants The executive order is meant to prevent shortages. Unions fear it will endanger workers in the plants, which have become coronavirus hot spots. 41 comments Global Impact Pandemic Shakes France’s Faith in a Cornerstone: Strong Central Government Local governments are challenging the primacy of the centralized state after it allowed supplies of virus-fighting masks and test kits to be depleted. A near-empty Orthodox church during Holy Friday celebrations in Athens. Aris Messinis/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images Greece Has ‘Defied the Odds’ in the Pandemic The Greeks have been dogged by years of instability, but their government’s response to the coronavirus has won praise from citizens. A near-empty Orthodox church during Holy Friday celebrations in Athens. Aris Messinis/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images Science A Scramble for Virus Apps That Do No Harm Dozens of tracking apps are being used or developed to help contain the pandemic. But there are worries about privacy and hastily written software. Airborne Coronavirus Detected in Wuhan Hospitals Scientists have identified genetic markers of the virus in tiny droplets, adding to growing evidence that it can spread through air. Here’s what you need to know about the Covid-19 antibody test. ‘A Terrible Price’: The Deadly Racial Disparities of Covid-19 in America For the Zulu club, a black social organization in New Orleans, Mardi Gras was a joy. The coronavirus made it a tragedy. Members of the Zulu Social Aid and Pleasure Club before a funeral procession in New Orleans. Eight weeks after Mardi Gras, eight club members had died of Covid-19. L. Kasimu Harris for The New York Times Opinion William D. Cohan Who’s Profiting From the Coronavirus Crisis? Amid an economic catastrophe, a few billionaires are still winning. Kate Murphy Why Zoom Is Terrible There’s a reason video apps make you feel awkward and unfulfilled. Michael T. Osterholm and Mark Olshaker Let’s Get Real About Coronavirus Tests Cole Stangler How French Workers Took on Amazon in the Middle of a Pandemic and Won Thomas B. Edsall Trump Hasn’t Given Up on Divide and Conquer Thomas L. Friedman Is Sweden Doing It Right? Lizabeth Cohen States Are in Crisis. Why Won’t Trump Help? Michelle Cottle Joe Biden Is Not Hiding. He’s Lurking. Susan E. Rice It’s Not Enough to ‘Get Back to Normal’ Alex Stone Baby Boomers Were Blasé About the Coronavirus? Why Did We Believe That? Ioan Grillo The Specter of Mexico’s Coronavirus Crash Editors’ Picks Chloe Cushman Review: This Is What It’s Like to Be Homeless in New York City An author introduces readers to a new mother struggling mightily to find a permanent place to live. Book Review Let’s Bury the Hatchet! Some people are using time in isolation to resolve deeply held grudges. Style A Mother, a Pandemic and Scorched Rice “You have an American amount of rice,” her mother told her as news of the virus intensified. “Go get the biggest bag you can find.” Eat 27 comments AdvertisementContinue reading the main story We’d like your thoughts on the New York Times home page experience.Let us know what you think Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions