http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/rights/permissions/permissions.html
Obtaining and using Times content – Help
HOME Help | Account | Contact Help Permissions & policies Permissions & policies Obtaining and using Times content Learn more about using New York Times content, and find out how to get back copies and reprints. Be sure to also review the Frequently Asked Questions About Linking. 1. Do I need permission to use New York Times content? Yes. With the limited exceptions described on this page, all use of New York Times content (text, photographs, graphics, video etc.) requires the permission of The New York Times. Please be advised that when articles or photographs are credited to a source other than The New York Times (such as the Associated Press, Reuters or AFP), it is most likely that the credited source holds the rights to the material. Please contact that party directly. The following list summarizes common requests for permissions: Article text with or without imagery (photographs, graphics, etc.), accolade licensing and full video can be obtained from PARS International by completing this permission request form or by calling 212-221-9595. Photos only can be obtained from Redux Pictures by emailing research@reduxpictures.com or calling 212-253-0399. Video clips can be obtained from Veritone by emailing licensing@veritone.com or visiting https://commerce.veritone.com/pages/NYT-Collection Internal corporate use (e.g. emailing, posting, photocopying etc) and the use of Times content in academic course packs and other classroom contexts are handled by the Copyright Clearance Center, www.copyright.com. For requests pertaining to ongoing use of text, photos and video, visit www.nytlicensing.com to locate your nearest New York Times Licensing Group representative. For information about linking to NYTimes.com, see the Frequently Asked Questions About Linking. 2. Do I need permission to email an article? The "Email This Article" feature that appears on most article pages allows you to distribute an article by email to up to 20 recipients. The use of this feature is limited to personal, noncommercial purposes only. If you would like to email an article for any other purpose or to more than 20 recipients, you must request permission as described above. For information about sending links to NYTimes.com articles via email, review the Frequently Asked Questions About Linking. 3. May I use portions of New York Times articles, such as quotes or excerpts? May I edit or adapt New York Times articles? Under certain circumstances, it is permissible to make direct quotes from New York Times articles. The context, number and length of the quotes will determine whether permission is required. It is never acceptable to selectively quote from articles in a manner that changes their meaning, to take quotes out of context or to combine quotes to create a sentence. It may also be considered infringement if a large percentage of the publication consists of quotes from New York Times articles. It is always best to submit a permission request form. Editing and adaptation of New York Times content is generally not permitted and must be approved by The New York Times. Use of article excerpts is possible with permission from The New York Times, without alteration to the intended meaning of the original text. Headlines and summaries, as well as various article metadata, are also available through Times APIs. Visit our Developer Network to learn more about APIs. 4. How do I obtain permission to use an image of any NYTimes.com page (a screen shot) in a book or other publication? For permission to use a screen shot or other page image, please use the permission request form or contact PARS International at 212-221-9595. 5. Can I use headlines and summaries of New York Times articles? You are permitted to create your own summaries and to use New York Times headlines with links back to the articles located on NYTimes.com. But readers who visit NYTimes.com by clicking a link on your site cannot bypass the registration process. For more information, see the Frequently Asked Questions About Linking. 6. Does The Times provide a research service? We do not provide a research service. To request a reprint of an article, you must first gather all the necessary information about the article, such as the URL if found online or the headline, author and date published. For information about searching for articles (including archived articles back to 1851), see Archives. 7. How can I purchase a New York Times photograph? To purchase a photographic print for a personal collection, please visit the Custom Photo Reprints section of The New York Times online store. You may also want to visit our store at https://store.nytimes.com/collections/photography to view other photographs that are available for purchase. If you need additional assistance, please email: nytstore.support@nytimes.com To obtain rights to republish or license a stand-alone photograph, contact Redux Pictures at 212- 253-0399 or research@reduxpictures.com. Rights to use a photograph along with other New York Times content (text, logo, etc.) are handled by PARS International by completing a permission request form or calling 212-221-9595. For requests pertaining to ongoing use of New York Times photography, visit www.nytlicensing.com to locate your nearest New York Times Licensing Group representative. 8. How can I obtain reprints of a New York Times article? High-quality custom reprints of Times articles in quantities of 250 or more can be ordered through PARS International by submitting a permission request form or calling 212-221-9595. 9. How can I obtain a high-quality reprint of a wedding announcement that was published in The Times? Reprints of wedding announcements can be ordered through PARS International by submitting a permission request form or calling 212-221-9595. 10. How do I order backcopies of the New York Times newspaper? To order backcopies of The New York Times from the last 90 days, call 800-543-5380. For details and pricing information, see Backcopies of The New York Times. For information on unaltered reproductions of full pages of the New York Times newspaper, please visit our store at www.nytimes.com/store. 11. Can I get permission to reuse a video, interactive graphic or other multimedia feature? For one time use of Times video and to discuss options for interactive graphics and multimedia, contact PARS International by completing a permission request form or calling 212-221-9595. For ongoing use, visit www.nytlicensing.com to inquire about the ongoing use of Times content and locate your nearest New York Times Licensing Group representative. 12. My question about rights and permissions is not answered here. Where can I send my question? If you have further questions regarding rights and permissions, please contact PARS International by completing a permission request form or calling 212-221-9595. Can't find what you're looking for? Review our Help topics or chat with one of our Customer Care advocates. Return to top © The New York Times Company Contact Us Work with us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Sitemap Help Subscriptions