http://nytmediakit.com/
NYT Media Kit | New York Times
Print Newspaper Newspaper Guidelines The New York Times Magazine The New York Times Magazine Guidelines T: The New York Times Style Magazine Ad Guidelines Digital Premium Ad Formats Podcasts Contextual Targeting Editorial Emails Dedicated Emails Video Opportunities Standard Units Live T Brand Fake Love Resources General Policies Ad Acceptability Guidelines Data Collection & Use Policy Approved Advertising Research & Surveys T Brand Paid Posts: Terms & Conditions Real Estate Listings: Terms & ConditionsSubmit Assets Your browser does not support the video tag. Our mission is to help brands make an impact in the world Innovation The New York Times has always been on the forefront when it comes to finding new ways to keep readers engaged. We listen and respond to our audience’s demands for more interactive digital media and audio, and are constantly paving new avenues for brands to participate in these endeavors. Groundbreaking Podcasts Pioneers in Augmented Reality Popular Email Briefings Engaging Multimedia Storytelling Industry-Leading Ad Formats Groundbreaking Podcasts Pioneers in Augmented Reality Popular Email Briefings Engaging Multimedia Storytelling Industry-Leading Ad Formats Groundbreaking Podcasts Pioneers in Augmented Reality Popular Email Briefings Engaging Multimedia Storytelling Audience Snapshot #1 Destination for Opinion Leaders for 14 years 1 SOURCE: 2018 U.S. Opinion Leaders, Erdos & Morgan. Rank versus 358 measured print, broadcast & cable programs, and digital media. 150M The New York Times digital reaches 150M online users globally2 SOURCE: NYT Internal 2019 ﻿ 60% Over half of The New York Times U.S. audience is made up of Gen Z and Millennial readers3 SOURCE: GfK MRI Spring 2019, US only, Generations: Millennials (b.1977-1996) or Gen Z (b.1997-2010), NET: New York Times (Sunday) or New York Times (Daily) or sites visited/apps used past 30 days: NYTimes.com ﻿ $1 trillion The New York Times digital affluent visitors wield over $1 trillion in total buying power 4 SOURCE: Ipsos Affluent Survey USA Fall 2019 Adults 18 or older, HHI $125,000+. Total Digital Brand Footprint (past 30 days). Expenditures weighted to household. Contact Us Name Company Telephone Email Message Submit Print Newspaper The New York Times Magazine T: The New York Times Style Magazine T Brand Studio NYT Live Fake Love Digital Premium Ad Formats Podcasts Contextual Targeting Editorial Emails Dedicated Emails Video Opportunities Standard Units Resources General Policies Ad Acceptability Guidelines Data Collection & Use Policy Approved Advertising Research & Surveys T Brand Paid Posts: Terms & Conditions Real Estate Listings: Terms & Conditions Contact © 2020 The New York Times Company