https://www.nytimes.com/section/multimedia
Multimedia - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Multimedia Today’s Paper Multimedia Highlights Photo CreditLandon Nordeman for The New York Times A Rare View of the Met Gala For most of us, fashion’s party of the year ends with the red carpet. But our reporter got a look inside. By Matthew Schneier and Landon Nordeman Photo CreditNina Westervelt for The New York Times Lady Gaga’s Many Met Gala Dresses on the 2019 Red Carpet One look simply was not enough for Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta. By Jonah Engel Bromwich and Valeriya Safronova Photo Credit Restaurant Review Pasteles and Two Kinds of Fried Chicken at the Freakin Rican After trying out his act on the street-fair circuit, a Puerto Rican chef settles down in Queens. By Pete Wells Photo CreditKrista Schlueter for The New York Times No Regrets Katy Perry Comes With Extra Cheese Inside the Met Gala after-parties held by Gucci, Moschino and the Top of the Standard. By Ben Widdicombe ON LOCATION Photo Credit In Oklahoma, a ‘Vastly Different’ Kind of House The neighbors in Tulsa may think it looks like a modernist museum, but that suits one art collector just fine. By Tim McKeough Living in Photo CreditTony Cenicola/The New York Times Leonia, N.J.: A Suburb of Artists, in Easy Reach of Manhattan Known for its creative community, the Bergen County borough is said to have “more oboists per capita” than anywhere else. But look out for the traffic. By Jay Levin Unbuttoned Photo CreditRichard Drew/Associated Press Does This Dress Make Me Look Guilty? This week Anna Sorokin, Elizabeth Holmes and Cardi B all provided a visual brief on how to use clothes to communicate in court. By Vanessa Friedman Hungry City Photo CreditAn Rong Xu for The New York Times Just Like Home: Freshly Folded Dumplings in Brooklyn At Mama’s Noodle House in Bensonhurst, the line between kitchen and dining room isn’t always clear. By Marian Bull Photo CreditAdam Dean for The New York Times Photos From Sri Lanka: Grappling With Tragedy Images from the devastation of the Easter Sunday bombings show glimpses of how the country is mourning. AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Latest Search Search Clear this text input The World Through a Lens Reveling in the Enigmatic Beauty of Easter Island Some 2,200 miles off the coast of Chile, Rapa Nui, also known as Easter Island, is among the world’s most remote — and mysterious — inhabited islands. By Benjamin Lowy When Life Felt Normal: Your Pre-Pandemic Moments Readers share memories, images and videos from before the coronavirus became a pandemic, and reflect on what they mean now. By Hannah Wise The World Through a Lens A Glimpse Inside the Secluded World of a Georgian Convent In the latest essay from our visual series, The World Through a Lens, we share a collection of photographs from a nunnery in the Samtskhe-Javakheti region of Georgia. By Robert Presutti 7 Travel Stories to Help You Celebrate the 50th Anniversary of Earth Day Confined to the great indoors on Earth Day? These stories will help remind you of the natural world’s many splendors — and why environmental protections are of crucial importance for the future of the planet. By The New York Times The World Through a Lens A Visual Trek Through the Sweltering Jungle: In Search of Colombia’s ‘Lost City’ Ciudad Perdida, an ancient city that predates Machu Picchu by several hundred years, has become one of South America’s most rewarding adventure destinations. By Stephen Hiltner Fiction Podcasts to Get Lost In Give the screen a rest and embrace a bingeable audio drama. By Phoebe Lett Fresh From Iran’s Coronavirus Zone, Now Moving Across Afghanistan Thousands of Afghans returning each day bring a risk of widespread infections to the border city of Herat and beyond in a country with little capacity to test for or treat Covid-19. By Fatima Faizi, David Zucchino and Jim Huylebroek Come to the Oscars With Brad Pitt and Us What we saw on the Oscars red carpet. By Emily Rhyne, Josh Haner and Calla Kessler Kobe Bryant’s Biggest Moments His career had countless highlights, but there were seven moments that seemed to define him best. By Benjamin Hoffman Check In 5 New Standout Safari Camps These lodges help prove that safari camps can be leaders in conservation, sustainability, design, eco-sensitivity and hospitality. By Christian L. Wright Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions