https://www.nytco.com/company/diversity-and-inclusion/
Diversity and Inclusion | The New York Times Company
Company Journalism Careers Investors Menu Company Diversity and Inclusion The New York Times is guided by a simple but powerful mission: to seek the truth and help people understand the world. A diverse, inclusive workplace is essential to that mission. Our journalists reported on the ground in more than 160 countries last year. Our journalism reaches 150 million readers each month. To ensure we tell and share stories with respect, empathy and accuracy, we are committed to fostering a diverse staff that reflects the society we report on. And we’re committed to giving our people a workplace that feels inclusive and rewarding to all. Life at The Times People come to The Times to contribute to a worthy mission, and to work alongside incredible colleagues who excel in their craft. We also offer a number of benefits and programs that help to create a welcoming, rewarding and supportive community. These include: Parental leave. The Times offers most employees fully paid leave to care for a new child — up to 18 weeks for birth mothers and 10 weeks for partners and adoptive parents — in addition to a comprehensive benefits package including health and retirement benefits. Continuous learning. We offer $8,000 in annual tuition reimbursement and free access to online learning, as well as many in-house resources for employees to grow and develop their skills. Affinity groups. We have 11 employee-led groups for people who share identities and interests, ranging from the Arab Collective to Young Professionals. These groups help to build an inclusive community and host over 100 events a year. Outreach. We are working to ensure a talented, diverse pipeline of rising journalists at both The Times and the broader industry. The New York Times Fellowship Program is a one-year work program for up-and-coming journalists. We also host the annual Student Journalism Institute for journalists of color, and support many outside organizations dedicated to increasing diversity in journalism, technology and the media. Help shape the future of The Times. To see current job openings, click here. Annual Reports We release data on the composition of our staff each spring, as well as additional context on how we’re building a diverse, inclusive culture at The Times. Read our annual Diversity and Inclusion reports: Read The 2018 Diversity and Inclusion Report Read The 2017 Diversity and Inclusion Report The New York Times Company The New York Times Company The New York Times Company Company People Diversity History Awards and Recognition Social Responsibility Journalism Experience Careers Newsroom Technology Product and Design Marketing Investors Collaborate Contact Press Calendar Privacy Policy We use cookies and similar technologies to recognize your repeat visits and preferences, as well as to measure the effectiveness of campaigns and analyze traffic. To learn more about cookies, including how to disable them, view our Cookie Policy. By clicking “I Accept” on this banner, you consent to the use of cookies unless you disable them. I Accept Company People Diversity History Awards and Recognition Social Responsibility Journalism Experience Careers Newsroom Technology Product and Design Marketing Investors Collaborate Contact Press Calendar Privacy Policy Search for: Menu