https://nytimesgroupsubscriptions.com/?=customer-care
Group Subscriptions | The New York Times
` × × × × Menu See Plan Details For Business For Education Contact FAQS See Plan Details Group Subscriptions Inspire your organization with digital Times access With a New York Times group subscription, you can offer your school or organization full access to our industry-leading, original journalism. See Plan Details Benefits The New York Times group subscription offers organizations and users a way to stay informed and inspired by the trusted newspaper of record. Unlimited Access Readers have access to The Times’s vast digital archives. Easy to Manage Subscriptions are easy to set up, manage and bill. Desktop and Mobile Users can access NYT regardless of their device. Tailored Pricing Scaled pricing delivers increased value to large groups. For Business A group subscription helps employees stay up-to-date on industry news, boost their professional growth and live better lives. “Digital access to The New York Times has helped us stay on the forefront of news and trends shaping our clients’ businesses. Being informed in real time allows us to stay ahead of the curve and be a resource to our customers as a consultant beyond the typical sales experience.” Kirk Vice President Washington Speakers Bureau Our multimedia storytelling engages readers with of-the-moment information from beyond the bookstacks. See case study “Offering free access to NYTimes.com supports our library’s mission to empower all people to explore, connect and grow. Patrons appreciate and enjoy the high-quality editorial content, and we’re able to offer a world-class news source even when the library’s closed.” Mana Supervising Librarian Oakland Public Library Our uncompromising, fact-based journalism can inspire and inform your own outlet’s coverage. “Digital access to The New York Times has helped us stay on the forefront of news and trends shaping our clients’ businesses. Being informed in real time allows us to stay ahead of the curve and be a resource to our customers as a consultant beyond the typical sales experience.” Kirk Vice President Washington Speakers Bureau Complimentary access to The Times is a special perk that will delight your guests and keep them connected to the world. “The New York Times provides great value to our guests who enjoy reading unlimited articles anytime, on any device. We’re also very happy to reduce our environmental impact by using the digital version over the print newspaper.” Schack Director of Operations Streamsong Resort Golf & Spa The unparalleled quality and breadth of our coverage grants any business a valuable leg up. “With digital access to The New York Times, it’s easy for our busy, on-the-go designers and planners to stay informed as they shape the ways we experience our world.” Aliza Corporate Librarian/Archivist Sasaki Associates + Libraries Our multimedia storytelling engages readers with of-the-moment information from beyond the bookstacks. See case study “Offering free access to NYTimes.com supports our library’s mission to empower all people to explore, connect and grow. Patrons appreciate and enjoy the high-quality editorial content, and we’re able to offer a world-class news source even when the library’s closed.” Mana Supervising Librarian Oakland Public Library + Media Our uncompromising, fact-based journalism can inspire and inform your own outlet’s coverage. “Digital access to The New York Times has helped us stay on the forefront of news and trends shaping our clients’ businesses. Being informed in real time allows us to stay ahead of the curve and be a resource to our customers as a consultant beyond the typical sales experience.” Kirk Vice President Washington Speakers Bureau + Hospitality Complimentary access to The Times is a special perk that will delight your guests and keep them connected to the world. “The New York Times provides great value to our guests who enjoy reading unlimited articles anytime, on any device. We’re also very happy to reduce our environmental impact by using the digital version over the print newspaper.” Schack Director of Operations Streamsong Resort Golf & Spa + Other Businesses The unparalleled quality and breadth of our coverage grants any business a valuable leg up. “With digital access to The New York Times, it’s easy for our busy, on-the-go designers and planners to stay informed as they shape the ways we experience our world.” Aliza Corporate Librarian/Archivist Sasaki Associates For Education The Times introduces the next generation of young minds to quality journalism, while offering college students vetted reporting and extensive archives as an academic resource. K–12 Universities Libraries Times coverage demonstrates the value of quality journalism — instilling habits to help students become 21st-century learners. “The New York Times has provided our classes with the opportunity to bring our subjects to a level that enlivens and enriches our students’ experiences and outlook on education.” Christopher Teacher Folsom Elementary School The Learning Network Empower your students and teaching staff with educator-designed teaching and learning resources, like lesson plans, writing prompts, news quizzes and more. The Learning Network is now included with district and schoolwide access. Learn more The Times serves as a vital academic resource for students and faculty alike, with full access to our unparalleled news coverage and award-winning interactive multimedia stories. “The New York Times is an invaluable asset in my classrooms. I expect grad-school journalism students to be fully up-to-date on the news, and to train toward being world citizens. The Times is the best source for that, with its mature, thorough, unbiased news reporting.” Bill Professor Northwestern University The New York Times inEducation Keep learning current with curated summaries, instructional strategies and exclusive content — all designed for easy educator implementation. Campus subscriptions include full access to The New York Times inEducation. Learn more Our multimedia storytelling engages readers with of-the-moment information from beyond the bookstacks. “Offering free access to NYTimes.com supports our library’s mission to empower all people to explore, connect and grow. Patrons appreciate and enjoy the high-quality editorial content, and we’re able to offer a world-class news source even when the library’s closed.” Mana Supervising Librarian Oakland Public Library The Somerset County Library System of New Jersey offered unlimited access to NYTimes.com — and transformed their libraries into community destinations. See case study + K–12 Times coverage demonstrates the value of quality journalism — instilling habits to help students become 21st-century learners. “The New York Times has provided our classes with the opportunity to bring our subjects to a level that enlivens and enriches our students’ experiences and outlook on education.” Christopher Teacher Folsom Elementary School The Learning Network Empower your students and teaching staff with educator-designed teaching and learning resources, like lesson plans, writing prompts, news quizzes and more. The Learning Network is now included with district and schoolwide access. Learn more + Universities Our uncompromising, fact-based journalism can inspire and inform your own outlet’s coverage. “The New York Times is an invaluable asset in my classrooms. I expect grad-school journalism students to be fully up-to-date on the news, and to train toward being world citizens. The Times is the best source for that, with its mature, thorough, unbiased news reporting.” Bill Professor Northwestern University The New York Times inEducation Keep learning current with curated summaries, instructional strategies and exclusive content — all designed for easy educator implementation. Campus subscriptions include full access to The New York Times inEducation. Learn more + Libraries Our multimedia storytelling engages readers with of-the-moment information from beyond the bookstacks. “Offering free access to NYTimes.com supports our library’s mission to empower all people to explore, connect and grow. Patrons appreciate and enjoy the high-quality editorial content, and we’re able to offer a world-class news source even when the library’s closed.” Mana Supervising Librarian Oakland Public Library The Somerset County Library System of New Jersey offered unlimited access to NYTimes.com — and transformed their libraries into community destinations. See case study Group Subscription Interested in the academic group rate? Request a quote 5–14 users $119.60 per user, per year 15–49 users $114.40 per user, per year 50–74 users $98.80 per user, per year 75+ users Request a quote Learn more Unlimited articles on NYTimes.com and the NYTimes app. 100 archival articles every month, for each user.** Dedicated customer service and resources to make implementation easy. * NYT Crossword, including our 20-year archive, on any device. * NYT Cooking, featuring cooking guides and 19,000+ recipes. * Work/Life, a special newsletter featuring articles to boost employees’ well-being. *Available as premium features. **Restrictions may apply for articles between 1923 and 1980. Group subscriptions are only available to five or more users. Off-site access is not available for hotels. Our Reach 1M employees across 91 countries 3M students and teachers in over 60 countries world Our Clients Frequently Asked Questions What is a group subscription? A group subscription to The New York Times provides unlimited access to NYTimes.com for your group of five or more users. Group subscriptions also include access from any device, 100 archival articles per month for any user and dedicated customer support. What is the minimum number of users necessary to purchase a group subscription? A minimum of five users is required to purchase a group subscription. If you’re a student or an educator interested in a subscription for yourself, please click here. All other individuals can purchase a subscription here. What is the cost of a group subscription? Pricing depends on the number of users who will have access, and the price per user generally decreases with volume. What payment options are available? Group subscriptions are billed annually and can be paid via credit card, direct debit, check or electronic bank payment. What educational resources does a New York Times group subscription offer to schools and universities? University subscriptions include full access to The New York Times inEducation — a resource to help educators teach with The Times. Click here for more information. The Learning Network is an excellent resource that offers K–12 institutions a wide array of teaching and learning materials using New York Times content. Click here to learn more. Is the print edition of The New York Times included with a group subscription? Print copies of The New York Times are available at a discounted rate when purchased with a group subscription. My school already has a subscription. How do I access my school’s subscription? If your school already has a subscription, you can activate your complimentary access here. Are discounted rates available for individual students and educators? Yes. You can find exclusive academic rates for students and educators here. How can I obtain permission to republish content from The New York Times? The New York Times Licensing Group grants permission to republish our quality journalism at an exceptional value. For reprint permissions and content licensing inquiries, visit nytlicensing.com. plus-icon Copyright © 2020 About The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Terms of Sale Help Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Feedback Ways to Subscribe Digital + Home Delivery Education Rates NYTimes Crossword Gift Subscriptions Copyright © 2020