https://nytmediakit.com/newspaper-guidelines
Newspaper Guidelines | New York Times
Print Newspaper Newspaper Guidelines The New York Times Magazine The New York Times Magazine Guidelines T: The New York Times Style Magazine Ad Guidelines Digital Premium Ad Formats Podcasts Contextual Targeting Editorial Emails Dedicated Emails Video Opportunities Standard Units Live T Brand Fake Love Resources General Policies Ad Acceptability Guidelines Data Collection & Use Policy Approved Advertising Research & Surveys T Brand Paid Posts: Terms & Conditions Real Estate Listings: Terms & ConditionsSubmit Assets Newspaper Guidelines Category rate cards Arts & Entertainment Automotive Books Business Consumer Products Education Free Standing Inserts General Classified Healthcare International Luxury (EUR) International Luxury (USD) International Exc. Luxury (EUR) International Exc. Luxury (USD) Media Real Estate Recruitment Regional Retail Technology Travel Editorial Calendar Sunday Main News Arts & Leisure Book Review Business Metropolitan Real Estate Sports Sunday Review Styles Travel Monday Main News Business Arts Sports Tuesday Main News Business/Sports Arts Science Wednesday Main News Business/Sports Arts Food Thursday Main News Business/Sports Arts Styles Friday Main News Business Sports Arts Weekend 1: Stage and Movies Weekend 2: Fine Arts Saturday Main News Business/Sports Circulation New York Region1 SOURCE: AM Audit Report 2018 U.S.2 SOURCE: AM Audit Report 2018 Weekdays 215,397 525,546 Sundays 304,371 1,010,619 Sunday Distribution Metropolitan Zone Sections City (Manhattan, Brooklyn, Staten Island & Lower Bronx) Westchester Connecticut Long Island New Jersey Ordering a Display Ad Reservations To reserve space for a display ad, call or email our Customer Order Fulfillment Department or send the reservation and material directly through our website: advertising.nytimes.com. To learn more about this service, or to place an ad through Customer Order Fulfillment (COF), you can contact one of our representatives from 8:30am to 8pm Eastern Time, Monday through Friday. Email: cofdepartment@nytimes.com Telephone: (212) 556-7777 or (800) NYT-5515 When you call COF, a Customer Service Representative (CSR) will handle your request. The CSR will take your ad information, which must include size, date, edition and position request (if applicable). The CSR will assign a reservation number to your ad and provide the ad cost. Service will be expedited if you have your contract number ready. If you do not have a contract number, the CSR can assign one. Please make sure to retain the reservation number. All materials and insertions submitted for publication must include a reservation number. Insertion Orders An insertion order must be prepared by the advertiser/agency for each advertisement, and should include the following: Reservation number Contract number and name of the advertiser and agency (if applicable) Billing address Day and date of insertion Section or position request Size and cost of ad Description of ad (i.e. headline) Contact name and phone number No endorsement, statement or disclaimer on any insertion order or letter shall act as an accord or satisfaction, or as a waiver of any terms or conditions stated on this site or in other Times policies unless and until it is accepted by The New York Times by a separate written agreement signed by a duly authorized representative of The New York Times. Display Advertising A full broadsheet display advertising page is based on a 6-column by 21-inch advertising unit or 126 column inches. Display advertisements are billed based on the larger of the reserved or supplied copy dimensions. The precise dimensions of the published advertisements may vary by a few percentage points from the supplied material due to the electronic transmission and reproduction processes. How to Calculate the Cost of an Ad Display ad cost is based upon the ad size stated in column inches. Column inches are calculated by multiplying the number of columns of the ad by its depth (inches). Include any special discounts or premiums. For example, if the ad was in color or in a special layout position, you would add the appropriate color or position premium. General An insertion order must be prepared by the advertiser/agency for each advertisement, and should include the following: Non-standard advertising units will be charged 10% above the column inch rate. Units must conform to column width specifications and position cannot be assured. Display advertisements more than 18 inches deep will occupy the full column depth and be charged accordingly. Minimum size is one column inch for all display advertising unless otherwise stated. Miscellaneous advertising rates apply to all display advertising categories not listed in rate cards and to certain display advertisements ordered outside the banner or section. If you have questions regarding your display ad, please call an advertising client lead or COF at (212) 556-7777 and press 3. Classified Advertising To place a classified ad, or to obtain information, please visit our website at advertising.nytimes.com or contact The New York Times Classified Advertising Department at (212) 556-3900 if you’re in New York City, 1-800-ADTIMES if you’re outside New York City but in the tristate area. For all other areas, please dial (800) 458-5522. Classified Advertisements These are charged on a line count basis, and not any other standard of measurement. Each line of 5pt type is charged as 1 line 10pt as 2 lines 14pt as 3 lines 18pt as 4 lines 30pt as 6 lines 36pt as 7 lines 48pt as 10 lines 60pt as 12 lines 72pt as 14 lines Classified Guide and Directory These advertisements are charged on a line count basis, and not any other standard of measurement. Each line of 6pt type is charged as 1 line 12pt as 2 lines 12pt bold as 2 lines 18pt as 3 lines 24pt as 4 lines 30pt as 5 lines 30pt bold as 5 lines 36pt as 6 lines 48pt as 8 lines 60pt as 10 lines There is a 4 line minimum for single column classified, guide and directory advertising unless otherwise indicated. White space is charged on a line count basis when ordered. To calculate the cost of a classified advertisement, multiply the number of lines by the applicable rate for the category of advertising. Please make sure to select the rate that corresponds to your contract level, region and choice of day. Logos, shading and borders surrounding classified ads are subject to a separate charge. In addition, there might be other special premiums, such as color premiums, which must be added to your advertisement’s cost. Display on Classified Advertising Classified advertisements more than 260 lines deep will occupy the full column depth and be charged accordingly. Display on Classified advertising represents display advertising published on classified pages. This advertising will be billed based upon the larger of the space reserved or supplied copy dimensions, including white space. To calculate the cost of a Display on Classified advertisement, multiply the number of lines (the larger of reserved or supplied) by the applicable rate for the category of advertising. Please make sure to select the rate that corresponds to your contract level, region and choice of day. In addition, there might be other special premiums, such as color premiums, which must be added to your advertisement cost. For Display on Classified minimum space requirements, please refer to the category rate cards. If you have any questions regarding your ad, please call your Client Lead or COF at (212) 556-7777 and press 3. Production Guidelines: Color Ads Overview Production Guidelines ICC Profile Distiller Settings Submission Checklist Transmission Options Reproducing color advertisements for newsprint differs significantly from reproducing color for magazines. While color printing in The New York Times newspaper is among the best available, it differs in quality from publications printed on coated paper. This section of the site explains how to create color ads that reproduce most effectively in newspapers. Included are general guidelines to follow relating to gray balance, density, dot gain, type, fonts and file formats. Production Guidelines Please note that The New York Times does not accept "spot color": premixed or specialty inks such as PMS colors, neons and metallics. Tone Reproduction The relationship between tones in an original (color transparencies, photographic prints, color and electronic artwork, line art) and tones in the printed work is known as tone reproduction and is often called contrast. Because of tone compression, newsprint reproduction has significantly less contrast than the original or magazine publications. While color printing in The New York Times newspaper is among the best available, it differs in quality from publications printed on coated paper. Tone Density The darkest four-color area should not exceed 240%. For black only areas larger than one square inch, the dot percentage should not exceed 90%. Mechanical Dot Gain Not all dots grow at the same degree. The greatest growth is in the midtone. This becomes significant owing to the high absorption characteristics of newsprint and the speed (copies/hour) of the non-heatset offset presses. Optical dot gain is caused in part by the relative darkness of the newsprint itself: the brightness (or whiteness) of the paper. You cannot eliminate optical nor mechanical dot gain. You must compensate for this effect in your images and flat tints. Without the required change, your color ad will print heavy and muddy looking. Mechanical dot gain for The New York Times is approximately 28%. Gray Balance The first consideration of color reproduction on newsprint is determining the combination of cyan, magenta and yellow inks that will reproduce an original neutral gray image as the same gray upon printing. Color impurities of inks, lower ink densities and the lower brightness factor of newsprint all affect gray balance. Type When preparing your ad, please keep in mind that we can be up to two rows of dots out of register and still be within industry specifications. Thus, for any dropout (reverse) type or four-color black type, at least 14pt medium to bold sans-serif typeface is recommended. Dropout (reverse) type in a black only area should be at least 10pt medium to bold sans-serif typeface. All color rules should be at least 2pts, all B&W rules a minimum of 1pt. Please note that type in artwork or in a transparency is not set type but a scanned four-color black that is screened at 100L; therefore, it is subject to the limitations previously mentioned for quality and registration. Fonts Please provide Type 1 screen and printer fonts for color ads sent using removable disks. (This does not apply to PDF files.) Note: We cannot make font corrections or modifications to PDF or postscript files. TrueType fonts are not accepted. Graphics Resolution and Line Screen: Images: 203.2 dpi (8 pixels/mm) Line Art: 1016 ppi (40 pixels/mm) Output screen ruling: 100 IPI Accepted File Formats: Adobe© 4.0 (1.3) Acrobat PDF is strongly preferred The International Color Consortium (ICC) profile is a color management tool developed by the ICC, a group that was established in 1993 by eight Graphic Arts Industry vendors. An ICC profile is created using the "fingerprint" of a device's color gamut capacity. The ICC profile provided by The New York Times is specific to the color reproduction capabilities of our non-heatset web offset presses printing on newsprint. Graphic Arts Industry professionals who are creating advertising material for reproduction in The New York Times can use our NYT profile as a tool to adjust the continuous tone images within their files. Applying the profile in the preview mode in Photoshop gives the professional a soft proof representation of what to expect on press, and the images can be adjusted accordingly. Do not try to launch or use this profile in any other way. This profile (NewYorkTimes2014.icc) is in effect as of June 2014. NYT Color Profile Set-Up for Photoshop 5.0 Place the ICC.icm file in the Color Sync folder in the SYSTEMS folder. Launch Photoshop 5.0. File Color Settings CMYK Setup CMYK Model: ICC Profile: NYT Press Profile Name Engine: Built In Intent: Perceptual DO NOT select Black Point Compensation OK Place the ICC.icm file in the Color Sync folder in the SYSTEMS folder. NYT Color Profile Set-Up for Photoshop 6.0 or 7.0 Place the ICC.icm file in the Color Sync folder in the SYSTEMS folder. Launch Photoshop 6.0. View Proof Setup Custom Profile: NYT Color Profile Check the Preserve Color Number box and click on the Preview box in the lower right hand corner. You are now set up to color correct your files using the NYT ICC Profile. Distiller 6.0 & 7.0 General Compatibility = Acrobat 4.0 Object compression = Off Rotate Pages = Individually Binding = Left Resolution = 2400 dpi Select "All Pages" Embedded Thumbnails = UNCHECKED Optimize For Fast Web View = UNCHECKED Default Page Size = 13 x 21 Inches Images Color & grayscale images Bicubic down sampling to 203 ppi For images above 304 ppi Compression = Auto JPEG Quality = Maximum Monochrome images Bicubic down sampling to 1016 For images above 1016 Compression = CCITT Group 4 Anti-Alias = Off POLICY = Cancel jobs when below 100 for color & grayscale, 600 for monochrome Fonts Embed all fonts = CHECKED Subset = CHECKED AT 100% When embedding fails = Cancel Job Color Settings File = NONE Color Management Policies = Leave Unchanged Document Rendering Intent = Preserve Preserve Under Color Removal & Black Generation = CHECKED Transfer Functions = Remove Preserve Halftone = UNCHECKED Advanced Select the following only: Convert gradients to Smooth Shades Preserve Level 2 copy page Preserve overprint settings Overprint is nonzero Save Adobe PDF settings inside PDF Process DCS comments Preserve EPS Info Preserve document info from DCS Resize page and center EPS Standards Compliance Standard = NONE Set Trim Box to Media Box with a .01 offset all around Distiller 5.0 General Compatibility: Acrobat 4.0 Optimize PDF: Unchecked Generate Thumbnails: Unchecked Resolution: 1200 dpi Binding: Left Default Size: Width: 13 Height: 21 Units: Inches Compression Color Images: Resampling: Checked and set to Bicubic Down sampling DPI: 203 for images above 304 Compression: Automatic Quality: High Grayscale Images: Resampling: Checked and set to Bicubic Down sampling DPI: 203 for images above 304 Compression: Automatic Quality: High Monochrome Images: Resampling: Checked and set to Bicubic Down sampling DPI: 1016 for images above 1200 Compression: Checked and set to CCITT Group 4 Anti Alias to Gray: Unchecked Compress Text and Line Art: Checked Fonts Embed All Fonts: Checked Subset All Embedded Fonts Below: Checked and set to 100% When Embedding Fails: CANCEL JOB Be sure that no font names appear in the "NEVER EMBED" window Color Color Management: Off Policies and Color Spaces: Not Applicable Options: Overprint Settings: Checked Undercolor Removal and Black Generation: Checked Select REMOVE Transfer Function Preserve Halftone Information: Unchecked Advanced Options Use Prologue and Epilogue.ps: Unchecked Allow Postscript File to Override Job Options: Unchecked Preserve Level 2 copy page Semantics: Checked Save Portable Job Tickets Inside PDF Files: Unchecked Illustrator Overprint Mode: Checked Convert Gradients to Smooth Shades: Checked ASCII Format: Unchecked Document Structuring Conversions (DSC): Process DSC Comments: Checked Log DSC Warnings: Unchecked Resize Page and Center Artwork for EPS: Checked Preserve OPI Comments: Unchecked Preserve Document Info from DSC: Unchecked Ads should be submitted on deadline and ready for processing. Ads that are incomplete or problematic may miss the desired publication/edition. Ads should be submitted in digital format. Industry standard PDF files are strongly recommended and preferred. An insertion order must be prepared by the advertiser/agency for each advertisement, and should include the following: Reservation number Contract number and name of the advertiser and agency (if applicable) Billing address Day and date of insertion Section or position request Size and cost of ad Description (i.e. headline) of ad Contact name and phone number Any changes or substitutions to previously reserved ads or materials must be accompanied by a new insertion order and a phone call into COF for B/W ads (212-556-7777) or the Color Services Department for Color ads (212-556-7729). Photos or scans should be converted from RGB to CMYK. (You may download the ICC Profile of our presses to assist in the conversion.) Pantone color should be converted to CMYK to simulate newsprint colors (and not to publication (SWOP) standards). Make sure page size is large enough for your Postscript file. Make sure to set page orientation to "portrait" regardless of the dimensions of the ad. Scan and save halftone (screened) images as EPS at 100% size with at least 40 pixels/mm or 1,016 lines/inch of resolution. The Times does not accept spot colors: Pre-mixed or specialty inks such as PMS colors, neons and metallics. Submit your ads electronically to The New York Times and benefit from improved reproduction, faster delivery, and lower production costs. Doing so is simple and reliable. Below is a quick guide to the transmission options. The New York Times Advertising Website Registered Users (Best for frequent NYT advertisers) Allows you to link your ads directly to your reservation number and send them over the Internet directly to NYT’s secure website No fee To become a registered user: Call the COF department at (212) 556-7777 to get your secure password and ID Non-Registered Users Submit ad materials online if you have already made your reservation Ad Transit Visit their website at www.adtransit.com or call 1-800-254-6533 Production Guidelines: B&W Ads Overview Production Guidelines Distiller Settings Submission Checklist Transmission Options The New York Times requires industry standard PDF files for all Black & White ads in both the newspaper and magazine. In this section you will find detailed specifications and Acrobat Distiller settings needed to create PDF files correctly for submission to The Times. The New York Times Times offers a pre-flight check of your PDF when it is uploaded on our AdPortal. Just click on the "Upload with VIO" button. Submission of black and white material is preferred and encouraged. Industry standard PDF files can be transmitted at no charge at nytadvertising.com. The following standards are for black and white newspaper ads and should serve as a guide only. Every continuous tone or halftone image supplied digitally or otherwise should be evaluated on an individual basis with an expected dot gain of approximately 26% in the 50% dot area using a 100% screen ruling. Dot gain curves are non-linear; ads will gain more in their mid-tone values than the highlight or shadow. All continuous tone images should be at least 170 ppi at their final output size. Line art should be at 1016 ppi. All ads supplied to The New York Times should have a minimum of 5% dot in the highlight and a maximum of 80% dot in the shadow area. Any part of the ad not intended to print solid black should be created at a maximum of 87% screen. A minimum of 20% contrast between foreground and background is recommended. All ads are reduced between 2% and 5% when printed. Type Type should be kept at a minimum of 6pt for standard or 10pt for reverse. All type intended to print solid black should be set at 100% black. Surprinted type should be solid black and contrasted against 30% black screen or less. Reverse or knockout type should be 0% (white) type on a 70% screen or higher. Fine serif typefaces should be avoided; use 7pt minimum for standard type or 11pt minimum for reverse. For additional assistance with material specifications, please call COF at (212) 556-7777, press 3, then 2, to reach a NYT Customer Service Representative. Distiller 6.0 & 7.0 General Compatibility = Acrobat 4.0 Object compression = Off Rotate Pages = Individually Binding = Left Resolution = 2400 dpi Select "All Pages" Embedded Thumbnails = UNCHECKED Optimize For Fast Web View = UNCHECKED Default Page Size = 13 x 21 Inches Images Color & Grayscale Images: Bicubic Down sampling to 203 ppi For Images above 304 ppi Compression = Auto JPEG Quality = Maximum Monochrome Images: Bicubic Down sampling to 1016 For Images above 1016 Compression = CCITT Group 4 Anti-Alias = Off POLICY = Cancel jobs when below 100 for Color & Grayscale, 600 for Monochrome Fonts Embed all fonts = CHECKED Subset = CHECKED AT 100% When embedding fails = Cancel Job Color Settings File = NONE Color Management Policies = Leave Unchanged Document Rendering Intent = Preserve Preserve Under Color Removal & Black Generation = CHECKED Transfer Functions = Remove Preserve Halftone = UNCHECKED Advanced Select the following only: Convert gradients to Smooth Shades Preserve Level 2 copy page Preserve Overprint Settings Overprint is nonzero Save Adobe PDF Settings Inside PDF Process DCS comments Preserve EPS Info Preserve document Info from DCS Resize page and center EPS Standards Compliance Standard = NONE Set Trim Box to Media Box with a .01 offset all around Distiller 5.0 General Compatibility: Acrobat 4.0 Optimize PDF: Unchecked Generate Thumbnails: Unchecked Resolution: 1200 dpi Binding: Left Default Size: Width: 13 Height: 21 Units: Inches Compression Color Images: Resampling: Checked and set to Bicubic Down sampling DPI: 203 for images above 304 Compression: Automatic Quality: High Grayscale Images: Resampling: Checked and set to Bicubic Down sampling DPI: 203 for images above 304 Compression: Automatic Quality: High Monochrome Images: Resampling: Checked and set to Bicubic Down sampling DPI: 1016 for images above 1200 Compression: Checked and set to CCITT Group 4 Anti Alias to Gray: Unchecked Compress Text and Line Art: Checked Fonts Embed All Fonts: Checked Subset All Embedded Fonts Below: Checked and set to 100% When Embedding Fails: CANCEL JOB Be sure that no font names appear in the "NEVER EMBED" window Color Color Management: Off Policies and Color Spaces: Not Applicable Options: Overprint Settings: Checked Undercolor Removal and Black Generation: Checked Select REMOVE Transfer Function Preserve Halftone Information: Unchecked Advanced Options Use Prologue and Epilogue.ps: Unchecked Allow Postscript File to Override Job Options: Unchecked Preserve Level 2 copy page Semantics: Checked Save Portable Job Tickets Inside PDF Files: Unchecked Illustrator Overprint Mode: Checked Convert Gradients to Smooth Shades: Checked ASCII Format: Unchecked Document Structuring Conversions (DSC) Process DSC Comments: Checked Log DSC Warnings: Unchecked Resize Page and Center Artwork for EPS: Checked Preserve OPI Comments: Unchecked Preserve Document Info from DSC: Unchecked Ads should be submitted on deadline and ready for processing. Ads that are incomplete or problematic may miss the desired publication/edition. Ads should be submitted in digital format. Industry standard PDF files are strongly recommended and preferred. An insertion order must be prepared by the advertiser/agency for each advertisement, and should include the following: Reservation number Contract number and name of the advertiser and agency (if applicable) Billing address Day and date of insertion Section or position request Size and cost of ad Description (i.e. headline) of ad Contact name and phone number Any changes or substitutions to previously reserved ads or materials must be accompanied by a new insertion order and a phone call into COF for B/W ads (212) 556-7777. Submit your ads electronically to The New York Times and benefit from improved reproduction, faster delivery and lower production costs. Doing so is simple and reliable. Below is a quick guide to the transmission options. The New York Times Advertising Website Registered users (best for frequent NYT advertisers) Allows you to link your ads directly to your reservation number and send them over the Internet directly to NYT’s secure website No fee To become a registered user: Call the COF department at (212) 556-7777 to get your secure password and ID Non-Registered Users Submit ad materials online if you have already made your reservation Ad Transit Visit their website at www.adtransit.com or call 1-800-254-6533 Ad Sizes Overview Broadsheet Broadsheet: Culture Section Sizes Tabloid Classifieds Ad sizes vary by section of the paper. Broadsheet sections (most Sunday sections and all daily sections except the Classified pages) use a 6-column format and ads need to be created using these size configurations in order to fit within this format. Both the Book Review and Education Life Sections are considered Tabloid sections. For all ads in these types of sections, please refer to the Tabloid sizes. Finally, Display on Classified ads are display ads that appear on Classified pages. These pages use a 10-column format, and the sizes for these ads differ from those on the 6-column Broadsheet pages. Download Visual Chart of Broadsheet Ad Units (PDF) Prepare reproduction material to these sizes Loading... Below are the only ad sizes that can be accommodated in Weekday Arts (Monday-Thursday and Saturday), Friday Weekend 1, and Sunday Arts & Leisure: 6x21" 6x14" 4x21" 6x10.5" 3x21" 2x21" 2x14" All other sizes up to 10.5" tall will be grouped and squared off in some formation The following is accepted based on availability: 4x14" 6x15.75" 13x10.5" (1/2 page spread) 13x21" (full page spread) Guidelines: Quarter pages can run in color in Sunday A&L, Weekday (Mon-Thurs only) and Saturday. There is a color minimum of 63" or larger in Friday Movies. Download Visual Chart of Tabloid Ad Units Book Review Standard Advertising Units Loading... Download Simplified Chart of Classified Ad Units Classified Loading... Deadlines Weekday B&W Display Advertising Weekday Color Display Advertising Sunday B&W Display Advertising Sunday Color Display Advertising Date of Publication Monday and Sports Monday Tuesday and Science Times Wednesday and Food Thursday and Styles Friday and Weekend Arts Saturday Reservations - Due by 5pm Preceding Friday Preceding Friday Preceding Monday Preceding Tuesday Preceding Wednesday Preceding Thursday Date of Publication Monday and Sports Monday Tuesday and Science Times Wednesday and Food Thursday and Styles Friday and Weekend Arts Saturday Material Closings - Due by 2pm Preceding Friday Preceding Monday Preceding Tuesday Preceding Wednesday Preceding Thursday Preceding Friday Date of Publication Monday through Saturday Reservations - Due by 5pm 5 business days prior to issue date Materials -- Due by 12pm 5 days prior = 2 proof rounds 3 days prior = 1 proof round 2 days prior = no proof Publication Main Styles Metropolitan Travel Arts & Leisure Real Estate Help Wanted Display Sunday Review Business Sports Book Review Reservations Preceding Thursday 5pm Preceding Thursday 2pm Preceding Tuesday 5pm Friday — 9 days prior Preceding Monday 5pm Preceding Wednesday 5pm Preceding Thursday 10pm Preceding Thursday 10pm Preceding Wednesday 10pm Preceding Thursday 10pm Tuesday — 19 days prior Publication Main Styles Metropolitan Travel Arts & Leisure Real Estate Help Wanted Display Sunday Review Business Sports Book Review Material Closings Friday 12pm Thursday midnight Preceding Tuesday 5pm Friday 5pm — 9 days prior Tuesday noon Wednesday 8pm Thursday midnight Thursday midnight Thursday midnight Friday 2pm Thursday 5pm — 17 days prior Publication Main, Styles Business, Sunday Review Sports Arts & Leisure Book Review Real Estate Travel Metropolitan Reservations - Due by 10am Preceding Monday Preceding Monday Preceding Monday Tuesday — 12 days prior Tuesday — 19 days prior Thursday — 10 days prior Monday — 13 days prior Wednesday — 11 days prior Publication Main, Styles Business, Sunday Review Sports Arts & Leisure Book Review Real Estate Travel Metropolitan Material Closings - Due by 10am Preceding Thursday Preceding Thursday Preceding Thursday Friday — 9 days prior Monday — 13 days prior Preceding Tuesday Friday — 9 days prior Preceding Tuesday Back to top Print Newspaper The New York Times Magazine T: The New York Times Style Magazine T Brand Studio NYT Live Fake Love Digital Premium Ad Formats Podcasts Contextual Targeting Editorial Emails Dedicated Emails Video Opportunities Standard Units Resources General Policies Ad Acceptability Guidelines Data Collection & Use Policy Approved Advertising Research & Surveys T Brand Paid Posts: Terms & Conditions Real Estate Listings: Terms & Conditions Contact © 2020 The New York Times Company