https://nytmediakit.com/nytmag-guidelines
The New York Times Magazine Guidelines | New York Times
Print Newspaper Newspaper Guidelines The New York Times Magazine The New York Times Magazine Guidelines T: The New York Times Style Magazine Ad Guidelines Digital Premium Ad Formats Podcasts Contextual Targeting Editorial Emails Dedicated Emails Video Opportunities Standard Units Live T Brand Fake Love Resources General Policies Ad Acceptability Guidelines Data Collection & Use Policy Approved Advertising Research & Surveys T Brand Paid Posts: Terms & Conditions Real Estate Listings: Terms & ConditionsSubmit Assets The New York Times Magazine Guidelines Download Rate Card Standard Ad Sizes Run of Magazine - 3 Column Format | Magazine Trim Size - 8.9375 x 10.875" INMMPosition shown is for reference only. Final page position will be determined by NYT. Full Page PDF Export Settings for InDesign/Distiller Non-Bleed 8.4375 x 10.375 inDownload INDD Template Bleed 9.1875 x 11.125 inDownload INDD Template Spread PDF Export Settings for InDesign/Distiller Non-Bleed 17.375 x 10.375 inDownload INDD Template Bleed 18.125 x 11.125 inDownload INDD Template 2/3 Vertical PDF Export Settings for InDesign/Distiller Non-Bleed 5.3125 x 10.375 inDownload INDD Template Bleed 5.8125 x 11.125 inDownload INDD Template 2/3 Horizontal PDF Export Settings for InDesign/Distiller Non-Bleed 8.4375 x 6.5 inDownload INDD Template Bleed 9.1875 x 6.9375 inDownload INDD Template 1/2 Vertical PDF Export Settings for InDesign/Distiller Non-Bleed 4 x 10.375 inDownload INDD Template Bleed 9.1875 x 6.9375 inDownload INDD Template 1/2 Horizontal PDF Export Settings for InDesign/Distiller Non-Bleed 8.4375 x 5.1875 inDownload INDD Template Bleed 9.1875 x 5.625 inDownload INDD Template 1/3 Vertical PDF Export Settings for InDesign/Distiller Non-Bleed 2.625 x 10.375 inDownload INDD Template Bleed 3.125 x 11.125 inDownload INDD Template 1/3 Horizontal PDF Export Settings for InDesign/Distiller Non-Bleed 8.4375 x 3 inDownload INDD Template Bleed 9.1875 x 3.4375 inDownload INDD Template 1/3 Square PDF Export Settings for InDesign/Distiller Non-Bleed Only 5.3125 x 5.1875 inDownload INDD Template 1/6 Module PDF Export Settings for InDesign/Distiller Copy 47 words max (includes property name and contact information) Photo Size 4 x 2.5  (4x6 can be resized to fit) Fonts  Property Title:  Gotham Condensed Medium, 14pt Property Description:  Berthold Akzidenz Grotesk, 9pt Call To Action:  Berthold Akzidenz Grotesk Bold, 9pt 4" x 3.125"Download INDD Template Spadia Cover Wrap PDF Export Settings for InDesign/Distiller Bleed Only 9.25" x 9" Page 1 & 2 trim to 3.5" x 9" Page 3 & 4 trim to 5.25” x 9” Back Cover is normal Full Page sizeDownload INDD Template Non Bleed Safety Inches Any type or image not intended to trim should be kept .375" from bleed on all sidezs. For spreads, Gutter Type Safety of .25" is required on each page. Any type or image not intended to trim should be kept .375" from bleed on all sides. Metric Any type or image not intended to trim should be kept 9.525mm from bleed on all sides. For spreads, Gutter Type Safety of 6.35mm is required on each page. Any type or image not intended to trim should be kept 9.525mm from bleed on all sides. NYT Mag Editorial Calendar Click here for the NYT Mag Editorial Calendar Gatefolds 5-Page Cover Gatefold The New York Times Magazine cover gatefold is comprised of four consecutive pages, of which three of the gatefold pages are produced Offset on 80# coated stock and the one facing right-hand page is produced Gravure on 40# supercalendered stock. Due to the differences in the two stocks, both weight and shade, and the two different print processes, color match and critical alignment are a concern; therefore, it is the policy of The New York Times Magazine that no crossover creative be allowed between the inside front cover and the first page on lightweight coated stock. Please be advised that should an advertiser choose to provide crossover creative for such gatefold positions, this disclaimer precludes The New York Times from accepting liability for color reproduction and/or critical alignment. Both versions of Gatefold display same sequencing above. The only difference being page width dimensions of B1, B2-A2. 3-Page Cover Gatefold The New York Times Cover Flap Magazine Gatefold Unit is comprised of two pages, the cover gate and page 2, which are produced Offset on 80# coated stock and one facing right-hand page and page 3, which is produced Gravure on 40# supercalendered stock. Due to the differences in the two stocks, both weight and shade, and the two different print processes, color match and critical alignment are a concern. Therefore, it is the policy of The New York Times Magazine that no crossover creative be allowed between the inside front cover and the first page on lightweight coated stock. Please be advised that should an advertiser choose to provide crossover creative for such gatefold positions, this disclaimer precludes The New York Times from accepting liability for color reproduction and/or critical alignment. Inserts Insert Samples At least 12 samples of the furnished insert must be forwarded to The Times, to the attention of Specialty Printing Director before shipment of insert to Times printer, R.R. Donnelley. Print Orders Once the issue date has been established, tentative print orders will be issued. It is essential that the print order be confirmed before your press start-up. If this procedure is not followed, you could easily undership or overship the quantity needed by R.R. Donnelley. Please call the Specialty Printing Director at 212-556-1788. Insertion Order An insertion order showing date, cost and description of insert must be at The Times at least 34 days prior to Magazine issue. Postcards must be reserved 60 days prior to issue. Delivery Inserts must be at the following address no later than 16 days prior to date of issue: R.R. Donnelley Gravure Division 216 Greenfield Road Lancaster, PA 17601 Advertising Acceptability A photocopy of the insert must be approved by our Advertising Acceptability Department before the press run. Special Regulations New York Times Magazine-size furnished inserts with only one advertiser will be accepted. Editorial matter must contain the standard New York Times disclaimer (see below). For information on New York Times Magazine-size furnished inserts carrying more than one advertiser and using an advertorial format, call the Managing Director of the Magazine, 212-556-3890. Advertisers must purchase the surrounding four-color or black and white spread for furnished inserts smaller than New York Times Magazine size. New York Times Magazine furnished inserts that consist of more than one advertiser and in advertorial format will be accepted subject to the following conditions: The New York Times logo may not be used on the supplement. The phrase "Advertising Supplement to The New York Times" must be spelled out in block letters on the cover. Every "Advertorial" page must be slugged with the word "ADVERTISEMENT." Slugs should be centered horizontally at the top of the page (no vertical slugs will be permitted) in Helvetica type or equivalent - ALL CAPITALS. A disclaimer box must run on a forward page of every advertising supplement - preferably on the first reading matter page: "This all-advertising supplement is being produced by (name of organization) and does not involve The New York Times reporting, editorial or sales staff." The disclaimer should also state who prepared the "reading matter" (the sponsoring organization, a company or group of advertisers) and should be large enough to be clearly visible. Bylines may not appear under the title of any pieces. Authorship credit must come within the text or at the end of the article. The masthead cannot use the terms editor, writer or publisher. Executive producer or copy director are acceptable. A copy of the "blueprint" of the section must be submitted to the Managing Director of The New York Times Magazine for approval prior to printing. Specifications and Delivery Will change for Patent Bound issues. Please call the Specialty Printing Director for more information, 212-556-1788. Production Guidelines: Color Ads This area of the site provides detailed production guidelines and procedures for creating color ad material suitable for The New York Times Magazine. Printing Information The New York Times Magazine body pages are printed using the Gravure printing process on 36# SCA++ stock. The cover is printed offset on an 80# coated stock. Trim size is 8.9375" x 10.875". All ads should include .125” bleed on all 4 sides. File Type PDF files only. Files conforming to the PDF/X-1a or PDF/X-4 standards are recommended. All ads must be submitted through The New York Times ad portal. Ads cannot be accepted through email. Color Proofs Color proofs for The New York Times Magazine or The New York Times Homes book should be sent directly to: LSC Communications Attn.: New York Times Prepress 216 Greenfield Road Lancaster, PA 17601 Contract Proofs It is recommended that all advertisers submit a contract proof with their ad. For Main Magazine, use SWOP #5 commercial grade paper or background simulation. All proofs must pass certification based on SWOP2006_Coated 5 characterization data set or an ICC profile made from this data set. Proofs should contain an ISO 12647-7 tone scale, which will be used to certify that the proof is within the standard tolerance. Note: For those advertisers who do not supply a contract level proof for color guidance, a SWOP2006-Coated5 Epson proof will be pulled by the printer and used for press guidance. This proof will not be sent out for review. Color reproduction will be based on the match to the proof pulled by the printer. The Times will accept a non-contract level proof for mechanical and element check only. All contract proofs should be sent to: LSC Communications Attn: HYLAN/New York Times 216 Greenfield Road Lancaster, PA 17601 (717) 293-2096 Advertisement Inspection Process Advertising material arriving within the allotted 48 hour production window will be put through a complete inspection process, including a mechanical size check, preflight of the file and SWOP2006-Coated5 Epson contract proof pulled for color evaluation and content check. Should the ad material fail the mechanical or preflight steps, the sender will be notified and given the opportunity to replace the file. If there are any issues regarding content and color, as compared to the supplied contract proof, the printer proof will be shipped to the sender for review. After review, a revised file may be sent to the printer correcting any problems identified. Material arriving on extension and past the 48 hour lead time is subject to the terms of the NYT ad disclaimer, which eliminates the content and color inspection of the material. Requirements The recommended resolution of images is 300 DPI. Higher resolutions are discouraged. Crop excess image to limit extra processing time on large files. Recommended scaling values are no more than 120% and no less than 80%. Maximum density (DMAX) or total area color (TAC) should not be higher than 340%. Solid four-color blacks should not exceed the 340% total density or go below 300%. We suggest a rich black comprised of 70% cyan, 65% magenta, 65% yellow and 100% key (a total density of 300%) for large black tint areas. In order to print the text and linework elements with optimum sharpness, we recommend those elements be prepared correctly in the layout application. Any text or linework element created as part of an image (e.g. in Adobe Photoshop) will result in a soft edge on the final printed product. Files must be CMYK. RGB and Spot/Pantone colors should be converted to CMYK before submission. Text type should be 100% key only. Overprinting is recommended to prevent registration problems on press. If the text covers a varying background and is large enough that the background is visible through the text, the text should be set to knockout. Large black text that exceeds 36 pt (such as “logo” type) should be a rich black for best print results. Recommended value: 70% cyan, 65% magenta, 65% yellow and 100% key. The guaranteed minimum printing tone is 5%. Any value less than that may not adhere to the paper and could effectively disappear. This applies to each ink individually. For example, a color made of 20,4,6,0 could end up closer to 20,0,6,0. A background of 4,4,4,0 may look good on screen, but may drop off to 0,0,0,0. Small type must not be finer than 0.004” (equivalent to a .29 point rule) at the thinnest part of the character, and should be a solid 100% tone to achieve the best possible printed result. Sans-serif fonts are recommended for small type. Tinted small type is not advisable; however, if used in the design, tinted small type should be no finer than 0.007” (equivalent to a 0.5 point rule) at the thinnest part of the character to achieve the best possible printed result. Tinted small type that is less than 0.007” (0.5 point) at the thinnest part of the character may not reproduce as well as expected with the Gravure process. When type is overprinting, the background should be no heavier than 30% in any one color, and no more than 90% total in all four colors for legibility. Reverse type should use dominant color (usually 70% or more) for shape of letters. Where practical, and not detrimental to the appearance of the image, make the type in subordinate colors slightly larger to minimize register problems on the production press. Small type and fine serifs should not be used for reverse type. The surrounding tone must be dark enough to ensure legibility. The minimum printing tone for Gravure is 5%. Less than 5% is not guaranteed to print and should not be used in the build of tinted type. A minimum of 10% tone is recommended in the build of small tinted text. Not following these guidelines could result in unfavorable reproduction on Gravure Presses. NYT will not be responsible for print quality problems caused by non-conformance to these recommendations. Questions For questions regarding color magazine specifications, email magads@nytimes.com or call (717) 293-2096 to speak to a New York Times Magazine advertising representative. Production Guidelines: B&W Ads The space reservations and material processing of all black and white advertising material in The Magazine is handled by the Customer Order Fulfillment Department at The Times. In this area of the site, you will find detailed production guidelines and procedures for placing and creating digital ad material for B/W ads in The Magazine, including type specifications and file formats. Production Guidelines for B&W Magazine Ads The New York Times Magazine is printed by rotogravure on high-quality supercalendared paper. Trim size is 8 15/16" x 10 7/8". The New York Times has converted to a complete digital workflow and digital input is required. Industry standard PDF files with all fonts embedded and no profiles or tags are preferred for all advertising in The New York Times. NOTE: When submitting black and white files, images must be set to grayscale, not CMYK, before distilling. Gravure engrave resolution is typically 12 lines per mm (305dpi). CT files and scans should be supplied as 305 dpi. It is recommended that excess hi-res image not used in the ad be cropped to limit processing time. Linework files may be supplied at any resolution. Typical LW resolutions are 34 and 51 lines per mm, or approximately 863 and 1296 dpi respectively. Proofs are not required for B/W advertising. Kodak Approval, Imation MatchPrint Laser or Dupont Digital Waterproof (on the manufacturers recommended Publication Stock or 60lb Textweb) are the only contract level digital proofs accepted for 4C advertising in The New York Times Magazine. Type Specifications Black type should not be finer than .004" at the finest part of the character or rule, with a minimum size of 6pt. The surrounding tone value must be light enough to assure legibility (less than 30%). Reverse type and imagery must be legible in the final print. The surrounding tone value must be dark enough to assure legibility. The finest part of the reverse character or rule should measure no less than .007", with a minimum size of 10pt. For more detailed black and white digital specifications, please call (212) 556-7777 and press 3, followed by 2, to reach a New York Times COF representative. Equal Housing Policy We are pledged to the letter and spirit of U.S. policy for the achievement of equal housing opportunity throughout the Nation. We encourage and support an affirmative advertising and marketing program in which there are no barriers to obtaining housing because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin. Deadlines Type 4 Color and B&W - Saddle Stitch Printed Gatefolds / Inserts Reservation & Insertion Orders Friday - 30 days prior Wednesday - 60 days prior Type 4 Color and B&W - Saddle Stitch Printed Gatefolds / Inserts Closings Friday - 23 days prior Monday - 27 days prior Back to top Print Newspaper The New York Times Magazine T: The New York Times Style Magazine T Brand Studio NYT Live Fake Love Digital Premium Ad Formats Podcasts Contextual Targeting Editorial Emails Dedicated Emails Video Opportunities Standard Units Resources General Policies Ad Acceptability Guidelines Data Collection & Use Policy Approved Advertising Research & Surveys T Brand Paid Posts: Terms & Conditions Real Estate Listings: Terms & Conditions Contact © 2020 The New York Times Company