https://nytmediakit.com/proprietary-library
Premium Ad Formats | New York Times
Print Newspaper Newspaper Guidelines The New York Times Magazine The New York Times Magazine Guidelines T: The New York Times Style Magazine Ad Guidelines Digital Premium Ad Formats Podcasts Contextual Targeting Editorial Emails Dedicated Emails Video Opportunities Standard Units Live T Brand Fake Love Resources General Policies Ad Acceptability Guidelines Data Collection & Use Policy Approved Advertising Research & Surveys T Brand Paid Posts: Terms & Conditions Real Estate Listings: Terms & ConditionsSubmit Assets Premium Ad Formats Designed to seamlessly integrate with The New York Times environment, our exclusive ad formats leverage high quality visuals built specifically for our premium audience, resulting in increased engagement. GENERAL GUIDELINES & REQUIREMENTS Filter by Format: StaticFlexXLSlideshowsVideosCustom Filter by Device: DesktopAppMobile Flex Frame Messaging: 2 Column Messaging (3 Column) Flex Frame Flex Frame: Logo Only 1x1 Autoplay Flex Frame Video (16:9) Flex Frame Video (Anamorphic) Flex Frame Slideshow Flex Frame 360° Flex Frame Window Shopper Flex Frame 3D 360° Flex Frame Article Spotlight Flex Frame Voices FlexXL Messaging FlexXL Video FlexXL: Nested Autoplay Video FlexXL Slideshow FlexXL Window Shopper FlexXL Multi-Product Shopper Native Homepage  Placement Featured Property Module General Guidelines & Requirements: All Flex Frames are produced by NYT with client-supplied materials unless specified and agreed elsewhere. All 3rd party tags (creative serving and tracking-only) and accompanying technologies being served by the tags must be SSL (https) and Safeframe Compliant. All units need to be built in HTML5, JPG or GIF. Flash is no longer supported by The New York Times. All sound in ads must be click-initiated. All locally served ads require a GIF/JPG and click-through URL. All ads with a white background require a black border. Max of 3 individual creatives in rotation at one time, unless otherwise specified for a particular placement. Max of 1 code change per week, unless otherwise specified. Submit all 3rd party creative tags to your Campaign Manager and adops@nytimes.com 3 days prior to campaign launch for static creative, 5 days prior for rich media. Tags should be sent as .txt or in a spreadsheet document. Do not supply tags in .rtf or in the body of an email. You must notify us if you plan to use a 4th party tag to track a 3rd party served ad. All assets must be delivered 10-15 business days in advance. FlexXL formats with full-bleed video must be user-initiated click-to-play. Notes: The New York Times does not permit overlay or pushdown/expandable formats. Flash content and Flash fallback (SWFs and FLVs) are not accepted. If a tag doesn't conform to our performance or reliability standards, we reserve the right to pause or stop the campaign. Prohibited: Flash cookies, HTML5 storage or any forms of Locally Stored. Objects on users’ computers or technology devices. Redirects (only direct requests can be made). Print Newspaper The New York Times Magazine T: The New York Times Style Magazine T Brand Studio NYT Live Fake Love Digital Premium Ad Formats Podcasts Contextual Targeting Editorial Emails Dedicated Emails Video Opportunities Standard Units Resources General Policies Ad Acceptability Guidelines Data Collection & Use Policy Approved Advertising Research & Surveys T Brand Paid Posts: Terms & Conditions Real Estate Listings: Terms & Conditions Contact © 2020 The New York Times Company