https://nytmediakit.com/editorial-sponsorships
Editorial Emails | New York Times
Print Newspaper Newspaper Guidelines The New York Times Magazine The New York Times Magazine Guidelines T: The New York Times Style Magazine Ad Guidelines Digital Premium Ad Formats Podcasts Contextual Targeting Editorial Emails Dedicated Emails Video Opportunities Standard Units Live T Brand Fake Love Resources General Policies Ad Acceptability Guidelines Data Collection & Use Policy Approved Advertising Research & Surveys T Brand Paid Posts: Terms & Conditions Real Estate Listings: Terms & ConditionsSubmit Assets Editorial Emails The New York Times editorial newsletters reverberate the depth and breadth of the newsroom. With 50+ briefings, our journalists don’t use a one-size-fits-all approach. Briefings cover a range of lifestyles, niches and themes, engaging a cohesive and loyal audience. Email newsletters help The New York Times build deep, personal, lasting relationships with millions of readers. Email Marquee Medium Rectangle Production Details Dimensions Width: 500px, height:130px Width: 728px, height: 90px Width: 970px, height: 250px File Type 40k max no HTML, Flash or 3rd party hosted images Creative Type JPG/PNG (no animation) or GIF (animation accepted) Optional Tracking Click trackers only. No impression tags cannot be used. Serving Options Site served Animation 5fps Maximum: :30s animation 3 loops File size is 250kb To accommodate subscribers who render animated files as static, first frame must have all relevant information. URLs 1 URL required. Any kind of standalone URL that is not dependent on being served via a 3rd party system and not dependent on being used in conjunction with a tag that tracks impressions. Notes All cookies must contain a functioning expiration date and expire less than 120 days from the time the cookie is set. Medium Rectangle Production Details Dimensions Width: 300px, height: 250px (600x500px for high resolution) File Type 40k max no HTML, Flash or 3rd party hosted images Creative Type JPG/PNG (no animation) or GIF (animation accepted) Optional Tracking Click trackers only. No impression tags or any form of tracking pixels can be used. Serving Options Site served Animation 5fps Maximum: :30s animation 3 loops File size is 250kb To accommodate subscribers who render animated files as static, first frame must have all relevant information. URLs 1 URL required. Any kind of standalone URL that is not dependent on being served via a 3rd party system and not dependent on being used in conjunction with a tag that tracks impressions. Notes All cookies must contain a functioning expiration date and expire less than 120 days from the time the cookie is set. Native Text Box Character Count 500 characters max, including headline (75 words max) Notes Advertiser must provide 500x130px and 300x250px assets as well to sponsor all ad units within the drop, including this native text box. Attribution language is as follows: PAID POST: A MESSAGE FROM "BRAND" Print Newspaper The New York Times Magazine T: The New York Times Style Magazine T Brand Studio NYT Live Fake Love Digital Premium Ad Formats Podcasts Contextual Targeting Editorial Emails Dedicated Emails Video Opportunities Standard Units Resources General Policies Ad Acceptability Guidelines Data Collection & Use Policy Approved Advertising Research & Surveys T Brand Paid Posts: Terms & Conditions Real Estate Listings: Terms & Conditions Contact © 2020 The New York Times Company