http://nytconferences.com
NYT Conferences
NYTLive NYTLive NYTLive About Conferences TimesTalks Subscriber Events Get With The Times Contact Sponsors Celebrated Speakers Lively Discussions Exceptional Experiences The New York Times brings readers closer to our journalism through more than 100 in-person events around the world that feature our reporters and editors in conversation with leaders from politics, technology, business, culture, sports and beyond. Join us for provocative discussions that address the most newsworthy issues of the day. Conferences The New York Times conferences convene the most influential figures of our time with senior journalists to explore pressing issues in specific fields, from artificial intelligence to city success, from democracy to the global luxury market, from business leadership to the international art world and much more. Through lively panels, one-on-one interviews and interactive experiences, audiences gain new insights and expanded perspectives. NYTLIVE HIGHLIGHTS Watch now TimesTalks TimesTalks is our live conversation and performance series that pairs New York Times journalists with the most creative figures in film, theater, innovation, politics, art, music, literature, fashion and more. For over 20 years, TimesTalks has provided a platform for engaging and spirited discourse among the most iconic and culturally relevant creative voices of our time, paying particular attention to those using the cultural arts as a lens for change. Learn more Senator Elizabeth Warren spoke with Andrew Ross Sorkin, columnist for The New York Times and the founder and editor at large of DealBook, at the Newseum in Washington, D.C., as part of TimesTalks, a live conversation and performance series. Photo by Erin Schaff for The New York Times. Subscriber Events Subscriber events are uniquely curated to offer you a window into our newsroom, no matter where you live. Hosted online, by phone and in person, these unique conversations, panels, conference calls and live experiences put you in direct dialogue with our journalists. Events are available exclusively for All Access Plus and Home Delivery subscribers for free or at discounted rates. Learn more Company of The Public Theater’s “Girl From the North Country” performing at August 17, 2018, Fall Preview preview event with Ben Brantley, Margaret Lyons, Wesley Morris and Lorne Manly. Photo by Max Mikulecky for The New York Times. Get With The Times Get With The Times is our live conversation series for college students. Hosted by our top journalists paired with famous figures in entertainment, politics, sports, business and more, the series is all about inspiring young people to get involved in the issues that matter to them the most. Each event is filmed live on a college campus and broadcast to watch parties hosted on other campuses across the country. Learn more Activist, comedian and author Chelsea Handler spoke with the reporter Megan Twohey at Syracuse University, as part of Get With The Times, a live conversation series for college students. Photo by Sean Smith for The New York Times. Contact SPEAKER INQUIRIES Programming Team Email PRESS INQUIRIES Adenike Olanrewaju Email Sponsorships The Times works with sponsors to integrate them into events in a way that augments the experience of our attendees and advances each of our sponsor’s goals. The Times delivers on a wide variety of goals — thought leadership, V.I.P. client treatment, generating borrowed interest via media (print, online, social), introductions to individual delegates, product demo or showcase, branding, use of conference content or content generation, media relations or other objectives. INQUIRIES Jessica Flood Executive Director Sponsorship and Business Development Email © The New York Times. All rights reserved. Privacy policy