https://nytmediakit.com/general-resources?id=data-collection-and-use
Resources | New York Times
Print Newspaper Newspaper Guidelines The New York Times Magazine The New York Times Magazine Guidelines T: The New York Times Style Magazine Ad Guidelines Digital Premium Ad Formats Podcasts Contextual Targeting Editorial Emails Dedicated Emails Video Opportunities Standard Units Live T Brand Fake Love Resources General Policies Ad Acceptability Guidelines Data Collection & Use Policy Approved Advertising Research & Surveys T Brand Paid Posts: Terms & Conditions Real Estate Listings: Terms & ConditionsSubmit Assets Resources The New York Times is the largest consumer news brand in the world. The Times has audacious subscription goals and more accolades than our top competitors combined. Our growth is aggressive and our mission remains steadfast: We seek the truth and help people understand the world. Our success is attributed to more than just excellent journalism — we’ve innovated upon data insights, redesigned our storytelling and ad formats, and have attracted a premium subscription audience. We bring this talent and insight to advertisers, and look forward to being an important part of your advertising program. PRINT GUIDELINESNYT MAG GUIDELINEST GUIDELINES General Policies Credit and Payment Terms Agency Recognition and Commission Rate Information Contract Regulations Copy Regulations Advertisements must be paid for prior to publication deadline unless credit has been established by the advertiser and/or agency with The Times. However, certain advertising categories will require prepayment as specified in the rate cards. Acceptable forms of prepayment are bank wire transfer, credit card or advertiser/agency guaranteed check. Advertisers or agencies wishing to establish credit with The Times must request a credit application from The New York Times Credit Department. Application requests can be made by: Fax: (646) 428-6145 Email: creditdepartment@nytimes.com Online: A form can be filled out at advertising.nytimes.com Completed applications should be returned to The New York Times Credit Department for evaluation of credit standing. If credit is granted, The Times will establish a credit limit and applicable payment terms. Advertisers and agencies granted credit will be billed weekly or monthly for published advertisements, as is determined by the category of advertising and established credit terms. Payment is due 15 days after the invoice date. The advertiser and agency shall be jointly and severally liable to The Times for the payment. Cash discounts are not available. Insertion orders containing disclaimers will not be accepted by The Times. Commission of 15% will be granted only to recognized advertising agencies. Application for agency recognition must be made with The New York Times. Applications are available upon request to The Times Credit Department. Phone: (212) 556-8777 Fax: (646) 428-6145 Email: creditdepartment@nytimes.com Advertising accepted by The Times is subject to all terms and conditions contained herein. Forwarding of an order by the advertiser constitutes acceptance by the advertiser of all rates and conditions that exist when the advertising is sold by The Times, and those of subsequent rate cards. Forwarding of an advertising order also indicates acceptance of the advertising acceptability policies of The Times. In the event of a conflict between the advertiser’s order and the rate card, the rate card shall govern. The terms and conditions of this rate card and all subsequent rate cards are incorporated into every advertising contract between The Times and the advertiser and/or agency. Submission of advertising subsequent to the receipt of such a contract constitutes acceptance of the terms and conditions of the contract. The Times reserves the right to issue new rate cards and to revise its rates in writing, effective no less than five (5) days after distribution of the new rate card and/or of written notice of rate changes to the address of the advertisers or agency stated in a contract. The rate card level applicable to an advertiser is determined by the advertiser’s projected volume during a 12 month contract period. Our COF Department will provide the advertiser or agency with a contract for signature. Contract requests must specify a definite beginning date and are subject to a rate card effective when the contract begins and subsequent rate card increases and modifications. Volume and frequency contract discounts will be earned only on advertising inserted within a 12 month period. Additionally, a contract is applicable to ads placed within a single advertising category. If the advertiser exceeds the initial estimated contract level and achieves the next level of the rate card, the advertiser will be entitled to a rebate based upon the retroactive application of the lower rate earned. The Times will credit the advertiser or agency account for the amount of the rebate earned. If the contract level is not achieved, the advertiser will be assessed a shortage based upon the retroactive application of the higher rate earned. The Times will invoice the advertiser or agency for the shortage, and payment will be due to The Times in accordance with the previously established credit terms for the advertiser. Advertising not paid for in compliance with credit policies will not be included when calculating the final earned rate, and is not eligible for volume and frequency discounts. Contracts can be voided at The Times’s discretion unless space is used within 30 days from the effective date. The volume discount levels for display advertising are based on 126 column inches per broadsheet page or 54 column inches per Book Review page. Volume discount levels for Classified and Display on Classified advertising are based on number of lines or frequency of insertion, as noted in the rate card for the applicable category. For frequency contracts, multiple insertions of the same ad on a single day count as one insertion for contract fulfillment, unless otherwise specified. The Times Magazine column inches will be credited toward fulfillment of contracts. See The New York Times Magazine guidelines for details, or contact your Client Lead. Each advertising entity will establish a separate advertising contract with The Times. Corporate affiliates are not automatically entitled to the contract benefits of each other. The advertiser and the advertising agency jointly grant to The Times the non-exclusive worldwide perpetual right and license to publish the advertisement in The Times, including in print and in any other format or media now known or later devised, whether or not such advertisement may be individually accessed, perceived or retrieved from such form or media. In addition, the advertiser and the advertising agency assume liability, jointly and severally, for all content (including text representations and illustrations) of advertisements printed and also assume responsibility for any claims arising therefrom made against The Times. Advertiser acknowledges that The Times owns a collective copyright in and to the selection, coordination and arrangement of the content of the newspaper, including any advertisements it publishes. Advertiser agrees that to the extent The Times deems it necessary, advertiser is obligated to reasonably cooperate and/or participate in any enforcement by The Times of its copyrights. The New York Times shall carry the appropriate copyright notice in its name. The advertiser and the advertising agency agree, jointly and severally, to indemnify and hold The Times harmless from all costs, expenses (including reasonable attorneys’ fees), liabilities and damages arising in any way from publication of any advertisement placed by the advertiser or the advertising agency. The Times will not be bound by any special clauses relating to legal liability, circulation guarantees or any other condition in contracts or insertion orders that conflict with its policies, unless The Times has specifically agreed in writing. The Times accepts no liability for its failure, for any cause, to insert an advertisement. The Times accepts no liability for reductions in distribution, caused by acts of God, strikes, labor disputes, suspension of publication, failure of transportation or any other cause beyond its control. The Times accepts no liability for any error in advertisement caused by it, except for the cost of the space actually occupied by the error. In order to qualify for an allowance, claims for errors must be made to COF within thirty (30) days from the date of invoice. Credit for errors is allowed only for the first insertion. The Times will make the final determination on the amount, if any, of a credit allowance. Two or more separate advertisements may not be submitted to fill a single standard unit space. For split-run advertising information, please contact your Client Lead. Cancellation of orders over the telephone will be accepted subject to written confirmation by the advertiser the same day. Advertising orders with or without reproduction material must be accompanied by identifying copy. Drawing, art and articles for reproduction are accepted at advertiser’s risk, and should contain an identifying mark to facilitate return. The Times shall not be responsible, and does not assume any liability, for damage or loss to original printing material supplied. The Times reserves the right to revise or reject advertisements in accordance with its standards of acceptability, to lighten or change type and borders or to omit advertisements without notice. Placement of advertising is at The Times’s discretion. Ad Acceptability Guidelines The New York Times maintains an Advertising Acceptability Department whose function is to examine advertisements before publication to determine if they meet the standards of acceptability The Times has developed over the years. The Times may decline to accept advertising that is misleading, inaccurate or fraudulent; that makes unfair competitive claims; or that fails to comply with its standards of decency and dignity. If an advertisement contains statements or illustrations that are not deemed acceptable, and that The Times thinks should be changed or eliminated, the advertiser will be notified. The Times will attempt to negotiate changes with the advertiser; however, if changes cannot be negotiated, the advertisement will be declined by The Times. All 3rd party tags (creative serving and tracking-only) and accompanying technologies being served by the tags must be SSL Compliant (https). In addition, an advertisement must sometimes be declined because of the applicability of laws dealing with such matters as libel, copyright and trademark, the right to privacy, the sale of securities, political advertising and products that are prohibited by federal or state laws. The New York Times maintains clear separation between news and editorial matter and its advertisements. Accordingly, ads that include elements usually associated with The New York Times editorial matter will not be accepted. (For example, but not limited to: Times-style headlines, bylines, news-style column arrangements or typography.) Additionally, The Times reserves the right to label an advertisement with the word "advertisement" when, in its opinion, this is necessary to make clear the distinction between editorial material and advertising. If you have any questions, please call the Advertising Acceptability Department at (212) 556-7171. For more information, please refer to this document. Data Collection & Use Policy Overview Advertiser & Agency Guidelines for Third Parties and Ad Related Services Audience Data Collection Attribution & Conversion Tracking Vendors OBA Compliance & Ad Notices No Advertiser, Agencies or their vendors may collect or use any data collected from any digital platforms owned and operated by The New York Times Company ("NYT") (including NYTimes.com, email newsletters and applications) (collectively, the "NYT Services") without the prior express permission of NYT. This includes, but is not limited to: Website or platform usage, behaviors and clickstream data, Traffic patterns or analytics related to NYT Services, or Context, content and any identifier of NYT. If an advertisement or associated elements are deemed in conflict with this policy, as determined by NYT in its sole discretion, the Advertiser or Agency may be notified so that necessary modifications can be made to comply with this policy. NYT reserves the right to suspend a campaign in case of unauthorized or undisclosed data collection or use, in the sole discretion of NYT. In case of conflict or discrepancy between the terms of this policy and any other document with an advertiser, agency or vendor (such as an insertion order), this policy shall prevail except with the prior express written permission of NYT. NYT reserves the right to amend this policy at any time without notice. While certain terms of this policy may reflect certain legal requirements that are applicable to Advertiser, Agencies or their vendors, this policy is not legal advice. NYT requires all Advertisers, Agencies, and their vendors such as providers of digital advertising tracking and reporting services to be Network Advertising Initiative (NAI) and/or Digital Advertising Alliance (DAA) participating companies or members, and compliant with code of conduct and self-regulatory principles at all times. All third party-served display and video ads must be served through a Media Ratings Council accredited service. All viewability and verification vendors must have an active accreditation status with the Media Ratings Council. The following guidelines must be adhered to on all NYT Services: No collection of information from end-users of NYT Services without NYT prior written consent. All data activity by an Advertiser, Agency or vendor on any NYT Service (e.g. via any advertising unit, widget, pixel, script or other data element) must be disclosed and expressly approved in the relevant insertion order and contract with NYT in advance. No use of data from end-users known to be under the age of 13 (or 16 years old in the EEA or California) or collected from online services that are directed to children. Flash cookies, HTML5 storage or any forms of Locally Stored Objects on users' computers or technology devices are prohibited. All pixels, tags, cookies, scripts or other tracking technology or methods (collectively or individually, "Tracker(s)") must be disclosed and expressly pre-approved by NYT in writing prior to running. If permission is granted by NYT, Advertiser and Agency agree to the following: The use of mechanisms that collect, store or otherwise process data on NYT Services must comply with NAI and DAA code of conduct, self-regulatory principles and AdChoices' opt-out (and their local equivalents), and, for programmatically served ads, the ad must display an icon or message with each retargeted or other interest-based advertising served that explains how the advertisement was served and how end users may opt-out of receiving future such advertisement from you (e.g., through the use of AdChoices icon). No Tracker may be used that does not provide users with an opportunity to control the use of such tracking methods. No Tracker may be used that circumvents user privacy, browser, device or data collection preferences. No Tracker maybe used for the purposes of retargeting, interest-based advertising (IBA), segment categorization or any form of syndication related to The New York Times, its content or its users. Trackers set on the device of a user of NYT must contain a functioning expiration date and expire within 60 days from the end date of the associated campaign. Advertiser or Agency must supply NYT with all reasonable information about the Tracker in advance (Advertiser and Agency warrants and represents that such information provided to NYT is accurate and complete) and a link to the domain owner's privacy policy, which must contain clear instructions on the process for an end-user to opt-out of the domain owner's services controlled by that cookie. Any Tracker that loads on a page of The New York Times property may not add to the overall page latency during loading. Any Tracker that loads on a page of The New York Times property must be able to support 4,000 seconds of http traffic. Tracker can only load after the online advertising unit itself loads using a "polite download" technique. Tracker may only trigger a single DNS lookup. Any Trackers must be secure image source tags/pixels, and no "piggy-backing" of pixels is permitted. No more than three pixels are allowed at one time. Each JavaScript file may not exceed 1K in size. Tracker will only collect those data elements disclosed in writing to and approved by NYT. Tracker will not load or call any further Tracker from itself or other parties. Once a Tracker is installed, implemented or used by NYT, neither Agency, Advertiser or their representatives or suppliers of Tracker will change or revise in any way such Tracker without NYT's prior written consent (except when such update is for security or debugging purposes). Any collection of personally identifiable information (PII) or video viewing information are strictly prohibited. Any collection of browsing history, precise geolocation (i.e. more accurate than city-level), personal directory data or other sensitive data is strictly prohibited. It is prohibited to use information collected on or through an NYT Service to individually identify, or attempt to individually identify, a user of any such service. Advertiser or Agency must publish a privacy policy on its website that includes a clear, accurate and complete description of how its advertising Trackers may be used and that abides by all applicable laws, rules and regulations. Advertiser or Agency must implement and maintain physical, electronic, and procedural safeguards that comply with all applicable laws to guard any data collected. Advertiser, Agency and their representative must comply with NYT’s published privacy policy at www.nytimes.com/privacy. Audience exposure for off-site retargeting messages must be limited to a maximum of 1x/day, 3x/week, 7x/lifetime. Advertiser, Agency, and their representatives must not retarget users on any sites that display or promote hate speech, adult content, illegal activity, drug use or violence. Fingerprinting (means identifying or re-identifying a visiting user, user agent or device via configuration settings or other observable characteristics) is prohibited, except when done solely for security purposes, such as fraud prevention, and only upon prior written authorization from NYT. Advertiser, Agency, and their representatives must comply with the Principles of the European Interactive Digital Alliance if the information is collected from end-users of The New York Times European digital properties. Advertiser, Agency and their representative will not directly or indirectly create or enhance targeting profiles or segments on the basis of NYT Services that a user has visited, the content on the NYT’s page or property, or the general interest area(s) covered by NYT (e.g. creation of an “NYT Audience” segment based on any information obtained from Trackers placed on NYT’s websites, applications or emails is strictly prohibited). Unless expressly permitted in writing by the relevant contract and/or insertion order with NYT: Third parties may not capture data for subsequent ad segmentation or cookie pools. Advertisers and/or Agencies are independent controllers/businesses with respect to their data collection and processing activities on the NYT Services. Each Advertiser and Agency agrees to fully indemnify and hold harmless NYT, its affiliates and/or their respective officers, directors, employees, representatives and agents at all times from and against any and all claims and alleged claims, damages, liabilities, costs and expenses, including reasonable outside legal expenses, arising out of data collection and processing activities by itself, its agencies, vendors and other advertising-related third parties. Any use of collected data must adhere to Section XII. NON-DISCLOSURE, DATA USAGE AND OWNERSHIP, PRIVACY AND LAWS included in the IAB Standard Terms & Conditions Version 3.0 as follows: Section XII(d) d. Use of Collected Data. i. Unless otherwise authorized by Media Company, Advertiser will not: (A) use Collected Data for Repurposing; provided, however, that Performance Data may be used for Repurposing so long as it is not joined with any IO Details or Site Data; (B) disclose IO Details of Media Company or Site Data to any Affiliate or Third Party except as set forth in Section XII(d)(iii). ii. Unless otherwise authorized by Agency or Advertiser, Media Company will not: (A) use or disclose IO Details of Advertiser, Performance Data, or a user’s recorded view or click of an Ad, each of the foregoing on a non-Aggregated basis, for Repurposing or any purpose other than performing under the IO, compensating data providers in a way that precludes identification of the Advertiser, or internal reporting or internal analysis; or (B) use or disclose any User Volunteered Data in any manner other than in performing under the IO. iii. Advertiser, Agency, and Media Company (each a “Transferring Party”) will require any Third Party or Affiliate used by the Transferring Party in performance of the IO on behalf of such Transferring Party to be bound by confidentiality and non-use obligations at least as restrictive as those on the Transferring Party, unless otherwise set forth in the IO. h. Agency Use of Data. Agency will not: (i) use Collected Data unless Advertiser is permitted to use such Collected Data, nor (ii) use Collected Data in ways that Advertiser is not allowed to use such Collected Data. Notwithstanding the foregoing or anything to the contrary herein, the restrictions on Advertiser in Section XII(d) (i) shall not prohibit Agency from: (A) using Collected Data on an Aggregated basis for internal media planning purposes only (but not for Repurposing), or (B) disclosing qualitative evaluations of Aggregated Collected Data to its clients and potential clients, and Media Companies on behalf of such clients or potential clients, for the purpose of media planning. All Attribution & Conversion Tracking Vendors must be reviewed and approved on a campaign by campaign basis. Except with the express prior written permission of NYT, any data collected through these providers may NOT be used for the development of audience segments, cookie pools, or retargeting. The following providers have been approved for use: Evidon TrustArc Approved Advertising Research & Surveys All survey requests must be agreed to, and pre-approved for, content and visual look and feel by The New York Times Company. Unapproved surveys detected running on a NYT Service may result in immediate suspension of advertising until all guidelines listed here are satisfied. All survey requests must first be vetted so that research partners have been approved by NYT Data Governance and Information Security teams. Once approved, please provide NYT ad ops with a contact at the research partner for tagging. All survey invitations should be sent via email by the research partner. No surveys in-unit or via pop-up will be allowed on the site. A user must never be asked to provide their name, phone number, email address or any other PII. Surveys may not use LSO (Flash Cookie) technology. The following vendors have been approved for use: Kantar Millward Brown Dynata Knotch (for Paid Posts only) Note: Additional vendors may be evaluated with the express prior written permission of The New York Times Company. In order to approve, vendors must fill out the vendor assessment form and allow a minimum of 6-8 weeks for approval by NYT Data Governance and Information Security teams. Digital Proposals: Terms & Conditions Digital Proposal Terms & Conditions can be found here. T Brand Paid Posts: Terms & Conditions T Brand Paid Post Terms & Conditions can be found here. Real Estate Listings: Terms & Conditions TERMS OF USE No refunds will be issued for NYTimes.com Agent Solutions listing upgrade ads. This includes Featured Agent Property ads promoting listings that have gone off the market and/or are sold or rented within the 7-day ad campaign on NYTimes.com. You are accepting these Terms of Use through your use of the Site. By using this website and the real estate listing e-commerce services offered on it, (the “Site”) you certify that you are 18 years of age or older. The Site is a service offered by The New York Times Company (“NYT” or “we”). By using this Site, you are also consenting to their Terms of Service. Real Estate E-Commerce Platform All billing and registration information provided must be truthful and accurate. Providing any untruthful or inaccurate information shall constitute a breach of these Terms of Use. By confirming your purchase at the end of the checkout process, you agree to accept and pay for the item(s) requested. There may be certain orders that we are unable to accept and must cancel. We reserve the right, at our sole discretion, to refuse or cancel any order for any reason. Even after your receipt of an order confirmation, your order, or any portion thereof, may be declined by the Site. We reserve the right to discontinue or change prices, and Real Estate listing product specifications, without prior notice. Listings are available based on inventory. TERMS & CONDITIONS Site Security Users are prohibited from violating or attempting to violate the security of any of our sites, including, without limitation, (a) accessing data not intended for such user or logging onto a server or an account which the user is not authorized to access; (b) attempting to probe, scan or test the vulnerability of a system or network or to breach security or authentication measures without proper authorization; (c) attempting to interfere with service to any user, host or network, including, without limitation, via means of submitting a virus to the Site, overloading, "flooding," "spamming," "mailbombing" or "crashing;" (d) sending unsolicited email, including promotions and/or advertising of products or services; or (e) forging any TCP/IP packet header or any part of the header information in any email or newsgroup posting. Violations of system or network security may result in civil or criminal liability. We will investigate occurrences that may involve such violations and may involve, and cooperate with, law enforcement authorities in prosecuting users who are involved in such violations. You agree not to use any device, software or routine to interfere or attempt to interfere with the proper working of this Site or any activity being conducted on this Site. You agree, further, not to use or attempt to use any engine, software, tool, agent or other device or mechanism (including without limitation browsers, spiders, robots, avatars or intelligent agents) to navigate or search this Site other than the search engine and search agents available from us on this Site and other than generally available third party web browsers (e.g., Internet Explorer, Netscape Navigator, Safari, FireFox, Microsoft Explorer). Compliance With Laws Access to and use of the Site is subject to all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations. The trademarks, logos, service marks and other materials on the Site, including but not limited to all visual images and text, are the property of NYT or third parties who have consented to its use by NYT. Use of any of the foregoing marks or materials without NYT written consent or that of the third party owner is prohibited. All site content is protected by copyright laws; any copying, distribution, transmission, or any other use of site content for any purpose whatsoever is prohibited. Indemnification You agree to defend, indemnify and hold harmless NYT and its affiliates from and against any and all claims, damages, costs and expenses, including attorneys' fees, arising from or related to your use of this site and the listings service. Disclaimer The content, information, services, products or materials included on this Site are provided on an “AS IS” and “AS AVAILABLE” basis. NYT makes no warranties or representations of any kind, express or implied, as to the operation of the Site or the information, content, materials or products included on the site. To the full extent permissible by applicable law, NYT disclaims all warranties, express or implied, including, but not limited to, implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. By your use of the Site, your use of the Site is at your sole risk. Visitors to the Site should check local laws for any restrictions or limitations regarding the exclusions of implied warranties. Limitation of Liability Under no circumstances and under no legal or equitable theory, will NYT or its parents, affiliates or any other party involved in creating, producing or delivering the Site or their respective directors, officers, employees or agents be liable to you or any third party for any direct, indirect, consequential, incidental, special, punitive or other damages, whether in contract, tort or otherwise, including negligence, arising in any way out of access to or use of or inability to access or use the Site or any linked site or arising out of its contents or any errors or omissions in its contents, including but not limited to lost profits, business interruption or loss of programs or other data on computer systems or otherwise, even if the Site is expressly advised of the possibility of such damages. NYT does not warrant or represent that your access to or use of the Site or any linked site will be uninterrupted or free of errors or omissions, that defects will be corrected, or that the Site or any linked site is free of computer viruses or other harmful components. Errors While NYT makes every effort to ensure the accuracy of all information on the Site, it reserves the right to make corrections if an error does occur. Changes to Terms We may revise these terms at any time. You are deemed to be aware of and agree to be bound by any changes to these terms. Information Security We strive to offer you a secure and safe environment for all credit card purchases. The shopping and fulfillment services in this Real Estate e-commerce platform are operated by a third-party affiliate that is equally concerned about your privacy. Your personally identifiable information entered while shopping is used only to complete your transaction and is never revealed to others or used for any purpose not authorized by you. Credit card information provided to buy Real Estate listings and/or listing upgrade ads is used solely to determine that your card is valid, that sufficient credit is available to pay for the purchase and to apply the cost of your purchase to your card at the time of purchase. Credit card information you provide is transmitted across the Internet securely using encryption. Some versions of browsers and firewalls do not permit connection to secure servers. In such cases, you will not be able to connect to the server and won't be able to place an order through a secure connection. While no method is 100 percent impenetrable, our shopping partner employs state-of-the-art encryption technology generally used in e-commerce today. Accessible Information You can review your purchases by logging into the ”Manage My Listings”section of the Site and entering your e-mail address and password information. LISTINGS POLICIES AND GUIDELINES All listing information should be complete and accurate. The more detailed the information you provide, the better and more qualified your ad response will be. If you include false or redundant listings, users will learn to avoid clicking on your listings, because they have an unrewarding experience. Integrity of Listings NYT reserves the right to remove listings without refund from the site and/or specific result sets (i.e. new listings, if listings are being resubmitted with new IDs) if clients violate the following rules. NYT reserves the right to cancel a client account for fraudulent or inappropriate use of this listings service. Each property must be listed ONLY ONCE and at ONLY ONE PRICE LEVEL Properties listed must currently be on the market. Notes on Specific Fields Description Field: The description field should contain the best and most accurate descriptive information about the property possible. All information must be property-related. Photographs: The photo field is to be used for photographs or illustrations of the property that you have the right to post, or if those are not available, a company logo. It is not acceptable to include advertisements, tag lines, animations or marketing messages (such as "Best Apartments in New York" or "No Fee") in the photo field. LISTINGS VIOLATION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES Violation Penalty 1st Violation A warning will be sent. Broker has 5 business days to fix. If listings violation is not fixed, we will penalize for 2 weeks: no listings can be marked as new, only one listing per search result in any price point. 2nd Violation A warning will be sent. Broker has 5 business days to fix. If listings violation is not fixed, we will suspend account for one month. 3rd Violation A warning will be sent. Broker has 5 business days to fix. If listings violation is not fixed, we will suspend account for one year. 4th Violation Suspended permanently. Fair Housing NYT also requires that all real estate advertisements comply with fair housing laws. We know that you share our commitment to fair housing and to compliance with the law, we ask for your cooperation in making certain that your listings do not contain discriminatory language. As a general matter, we do not accept advertising that makes references to any of the following characteristics of potential buyers or renters: Age Ancestry Color Children Disability Familial Status Gender Marital Status Military Status National Origin Race Religion Sexual Orientation or Preference Source of Income While the law allows for certain exceptions, we would ask that you consult with us whenever you believe an exception applies prior to submitting the advertisement. Back to top Print Newspaper The New York Times Magazine T: The New York Times Style Magazine T Brand Studio NYT Live Fake Love Digital Premium Ad Formats Podcasts Contextual Targeting Editorial Emails Dedicated Emails Video Opportunities Standard Units Resources General Policies Ad Acceptability Guidelines Data Collection & Use Policy Approved Advertising Research & Surveys T Brand Paid Posts: Terms & Conditions Real Estate Listings: Terms & Conditions Contact © 2020 The New York Times Company