https://www.tbrandstudio.com/projects/dove-how-do-you-challenge-hair-stereotypes
Challenging Hair Stereotypes to Boost Diversity | T Brand
skip to content 
    T Brand
  T Brand Work Method Impact Dove Challenging Hair Stereotypes to Boost Diversity Focusing on real people, to celebrate diversity As part of Unilever’s mission to help people feel good, look good and get more out of life, Dove is working to challenge hair stereotypes — about color, style or texture — to celebrate diversity. Gen Z is the largest and most diverse generation in U.S. history. To align with our newsroom’s coverage of this emergent generation, T Brand explored how Gen Zers and their parents see their hair as a way to embrace positive identity and greater diversity. To seamlessly integrate Dove alongside newsroom coverage of Gen Z, T Brand interviewed Gen Z women who view their hair as an expression of individuality. We photographed the women as they spoke about their personal journeys to embrace their hair. In each case, they shared how they’ve been inspired by their parents and, in turn, came to inspire their parents. By matching parents with their adult daughters, the creative featured a frank, playful and honest discussion about how hair diversity has changed across generations. Combining warm portraiture with a Q. and A. format, the series ran in swipeable, large-format native ad units that encouraged readers to click out to Dove for more. Next T Brand lives inside the New York City headquarters of The Times. We have offices around the world. T Brand New York, London, Paris, Hong Kong tbrandstudio-info@nytimes.com Facebook | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo | YouTube Fake Love Brooklyn make@fakelove.tv Website | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo Jobs at T Brand Media Kit Privacy Terms of Service The New York Times Co. © 2020 The New York Times Company Your tracker settings We use cookies and similar methods to recognize visitors and remember their preferences. We also use them to measure ad campaign effectiveness, target ads and analyze site traffic. To learn more about these methods, including how to disable them, view our Cookie Policy. By clicking ‘accept,’ you consent to the processing of your data by us and third parties using the above methods. You can always change your tracker preferences by visiting our Cookie Policy. Accept Manage Trackers Your preference has been stored for this browser and device. If you clear your cookies, your preference will be forgotten. There was an error setting your preferences, please try again.