https://www.tbrandstudio.com/projects/dropbox-comedians-save-you
Saving You From the 24-Hour Workday With Comedy | T Brand
skip to content 
    T Brand
  T Brand Work Method Impact Dropbox Saving You From the 24-Hour Workday With Comedy Can laughter help us switch off the ‘always on’? Dropbox had a problem: Today’s workforce tended to think of it as a file-sharing tool, and not a collaborative platform used by workplace teams. In “Let These Comedians Save You From the 24-Hour Workday,” T Brand featured videos of comedians unpacking the topic of what our jobs truly entail by riffing on real-world job listings. The takeaway? Dropbox’s smart workspace reduces friction, enabling people to do more-meaningful work. T Brand embedded the three comedians’ videos in a humorous editorial guide, which concluded with the messaging that Dropbox’s smart workspace can help reduce busywork and friction in team workflows. T Brand created a campaign to distribute this content in the most relevant areas of The Times, including a one-page print piece in the Sunday business section. The execution displayed a satirical job listing and prompted readers to go to Dropbox to escape the “always on,” 24-hour workday. On social media, T Brand posted video cut-downs of each comedian, which were widely shared. Visit page Previous Next T Brand lives inside the New York City headquarters of The Times. We have offices around the world. T Brand New York, London, Paris, Hong Kong tbrandstudio-info@nytimes.com Facebook | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo | YouTube Fake Love Brooklyn make@fakelove.tv Website | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo Jobs at T Brand Media Kit Privacy Terms of Service The New York Times Co. © 2020 The New York Times Company Your tracker settings We use cookies and similar methods to recognize visitors and remember their preferences. We also use them to measure ad campaign effectiveness, target ads and analyze site traffic. To learn more about these methods, including how to disable them, view our Cookie Policy. By clicking ‘accept,’ you consent to the processing of your data by us and third parties using the above methods. You can always change your tracker preferences by visiting our Cookie Policy. Accept Manage Trackers Your preference has been stored for this browser and device. If you clear your cookies, your preference will be forgotten. There was an error setting your preferences, please try again.