https://www.tbrandstudio.com/projects/tokyo-undying-love-for-sport
Unearthing Tokyo’s Sporting Roots, Ahead of the Olympics | T Brand
skip to content 
    T Brand
  T Brand Work Method Impact Tokyo Convention & Visitors Bureau Unearthing Tokyo’s Sporting Roots, Ahead of the Olympics Tokyo’s sporting heritage goes from ancient rituals to global imports Tokyo is proud to host the 2020 Summer Olympics. Yet amid all the excitement over the pageantry and performance, it’s easy for Japan’s capital to get lost in the mix. In reality, Tokyo is a global center of sporting passion. Baseball is huge there, as is karate, judo, sumo and, one that predates them all, Kobudo. Modern entrants, such as basketball, rugby and even dodgeball, have also found a happy home in the city. To build awareness of Tokyo’s sporting bona fides, we created an interactive story that illuminates the city’s diverse sports culture and rich sporting history. Our host is longtime Tokyo resident Jim Allen, a sportswriter first drawn to Japan’s baseball scene three decades ago. Told through a montage of naturalistic photography, reported editorial and vivid filmmaking, our story traverses Tokyo’s streets and goes into its playing fields, playgrounds and sparring mats. Our host introduces us to a Japanese-Australian stuntwoman pursuing the ancient — and physically gruelling — sport of Kobudo. Then we meet a homegrown basketball pro who’s helping to transplant the sport’s American roots to a new generation of fans in Japan. Visit page Previous Next T Brand lives inside the New York City headquarters of The Times. We have offices around the world. T Brand New York, London, Paris, Hong Kong tbrandstudio-info@nytimes.com Facebook | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo | YouTube Fake Love Brooklyn make@fakelove.tv Website | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo Jobs at T Brand Media Kit Privacy Terms of Service The New York Times Co. © 2020 The New York Times Company Your tracker settings We use cookies and similar methods to recognize visitors and remember their preferences. We also use them to measure ad campaign effectiveness, target ads and analyze site traffic. To learn more about these methods, including how to disable them, view our Cookie Policy. By clicking ‘accept,’ you consent to the processing of your data by us and third parties using the above methods. You can always change your tracker preferences by visiting our Cookie Policy. Accept Manage Trackers Your preference has been stored for this browser and device. If you clear your cookies, your preference will be forgotten. There was an error setting your preferences, please try again.