https://www.tbrandstudio.com/projects/cartier-the-bold-generation
Bringing Craftsmanship to Life | T Brand
skip to content 
    T Brand
  T Brand Work Method Impact Cartier Bringing Craftsmanship to Life How ‘The Bold Generation’ redefines daring Cartier is known for its commitment to craftsmanship. But as a legacy brand, Cartier is not often recognized for standout creativity. To help millennial consumers recognize Cartier’s bold approach to craftmanship, T Brand explored the question of how a creator can be pioneering without compromising tradition. Through a pair of custom videos, T Brand explored the creative passion of two artists who are reinterpreting traditional fields: ballerina Isabella Boylston and musician and visual artist Chaz Bear. This work was housed in The Bold Generation, a new editorial franchise from T Magazine. Through first-to-market impactful ad formats, social stories and emotional targeting capabilities, T Brand helped Cartier give new meaning to bold creativity. Visit page Previous Next T Brand lives inside the New York City headquarters of The Times. We have offices around the world. T Brand New York, London, Paris, Hong Kong tbrandstudio-info@nytimes.com Facebook | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo | YouTube Fake Love Brooklyn make@fakelove.tv Website | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo Jobs at T Brand Media Kit Privacy Terms of Service The New York Times Co. © 2020 The New York Times Company Your tracker settings We use cookies and similar methods to recognize visitors and remember their preferences. We also use them to measure ad campaign effectiveness, target ads and analyze site traffic. To learn more about these methods, including how to disable them, view our Cookie Policy. By clicking ‘accept,’ you consent to the processing of your data by us and third parties using the above methods. You can always change your tracker preferences by visiting our Cookie Policy. Accept Manage Trackers Your preference has been stored for this browser and device. If you clear your cookies, your preference will be forgotten. There was an error setting your preferences, please try again.