https://www.tbrandstudio.com/projects/cbs-why-women-kill-podcast
Discovering Gender&#39;s Surprising Role in True Crime Cases (Podcast) | T Brand
skip to content 
    T Brand
  T Brand Work Method Impact CBS All Access Discovering Gender's Surprising Role in True Crime Cases (Podcast) In a sea of true-crime podcasts, can we create one that stands out? When women kill, they’re often treated differently than are male murderers. Why is this, and what does that tell us about gender and criminal stereotypes? To drive attention to CBS All Access’ new television series about female killers, T Brand tapped into the passionate fan base around true crime podcasts and explored how even murder cases can reflect complex gender issues. In a six-episode podcast, T Brand dug into the archetypes often associated with women who kill. From Belle Gunness, who was labeled a “Black Widow,” to Lizzie Borden, tagged as a “Woman Who Snapped,” we explored the intrigue, psychology and history of female killers. In each episode, our host, true crime writer Tori Telfer, was joined by notable guests, including psychologists, forensic experts and criminal historians, to provide insights about the different women’s stories. Listen to the podcast Previous Next T Brand lives inside the New York City headquarters of The Times. We have offices around the world. T Brand New York, London, Paris, Hong Kong tbrandstudio-info@nytimes.com Facebook | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo | YouTube Fake Love Brooklyn make@fakelove.tv Website | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo Jobs at T Brand Media Kit Privacy Terms of Service The New York Times Co. © 2020 The New York Times Company Your tracker settings We use cookies and similar methods to recognize visitors and remember their preferences. We also use them to measure ad campaign effectiveness, target ads and analyze site traffic. To learn more about these methods, including how to disable them, view our Cookie Policy. By clicking ‘accept,’ you consent to the processing of your data by us and third parties using the above methods. You can always change your tracker preferences by visiting our Cookie Policy. Accept Manage Trackers Your preference has been stored for this browser and device. If you clear your cookies, your preference will be forgotten. There was an error setting your preferences, please try again.