https://www.tbrandstudio.com/projects/charlottes-web-is-your-cbd-oil-legit
Using Art to Shift Perceptions of CBD | T Brand
skip to content 
    T Brand
  T Brand Work Method Impact Charlotte's Web Using Art to Shift Perceptions of CBD How can we teach the public about CBD? Charlotte’s Web is a leading maker of hemp extract and has pioneered the CBD category. To help introduce the brand and increase consumer understanding of hemp, we created a groundswell conversation centered on the mission of Charlotte’s Web: to ensure access to the truth about hemp. “Hemp-based CBD is gaining major popularity in the mainstream, and while much of that is people sharing their positive experiences, the conversation is also getting cluttered. That’s why education right now is key.” — Jesse Stanley, Charlotte’s Web Founder Art has long been a catalyst to create change. To spark greater awareness around hemp-based CBD, T Brand crafted a Paid Post to tell the story behind CBD and worked with Shepard Fairey’s Studio Number One to create provocative public art that we positioned in key locations to act as beacons for our message. Canvassing key cities where the conversation around CBD was hitting a critical mass, this artwork reminded viewers that ‘natural’ should not be an alternative. Trust the Earth: The Stanley brothers, who cofounded Charlotte’s Web, with their mural in Brooklyn, N.Y., part of a multicity installation. Visit page Previous Next T Brand lives inside the New York City headquarters of The Times. We have offices around the world. T Brand New York, London, Paris, Hong Kong tbrandstudio-info@nytimes.com Facebook | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo | YouTube Fake Love Brooklyn make@fakelove.tv Website | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo Jobs at T Brand Media Kit Privacy Terms of Service The New York Times Co. © 2020 The New York Times Company Your tracker settings We use cookies and similar methods to recognize visitors and remember their preferences. We also use them to measure ad campaign effectiveness, target ads and analyze site traffic. To learn more about these methods, including how to disable them, view our Cookie Policy. By clicking ‘accept,’ you consent to the processing of your data by us and third parties using the above methods. You can always change your tracker preferences by visiting our Cookie Policy. Accept Manage Trackers Your preference has been stored for this browser and device. If you clear your cookies, your preference will be forgotten. There was an error setting your preferences, please try again.