https://www.tbrandstudio.com/projects/burberry-love-the-spoken-word
Celebrating Love for a Holiday Campaign | T Brand
skip to content 
    T Brand
  T Brand Work Method Impact Burberry Celebrating Love for a Holiday Campaign Contemplating how love and togetherness inspire the creative process Burberry’s holiday campaign celebrated togetherness and community. Love can be young, old, straight, gay, male, female, nonbinary, romantic, familiar or friendly, but it’s singular in purpose: to bring us together. To show the power of togetherness, T Brand commissioned three emerging creatives to contemplate the meaning of love and togetherness via spoken-word poetry and performance. Design inspiration was centered around concrete poetry and traditional print processes. Typographic details such as discretionary ligatures were deployed throughout the Paid Post to immerse our readers into a world of spoken-word performance and English literature. Visit page Previous Next T Brand lives inside the New York City headquarters of The Times. We have offices around the world. T Brand New York, London, Paris, Hong Kong tbrandstudio-info@nytimes.com Facebook | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo | YouTube Fake Love Brooklyn make@fakelove.tv Website | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo Jobs at T Brand Media Kit Privacy Terms of Service The New York Times Co. © 2020 The New York Times Company Your tracker settings We use cookies and similar methods to recognize visitors and remember their preferences. We also use them to measure ad campaign effectiveness, target ads and analyze site traffic. To learn more about these methods, including how to disable them, view our Cookie Policy. By clicking ‘accept,’ you consent to the processing of your data by us and third parties using the above methods. You can always change your tracker preferences by visiting our Cookie Policy. Accept Manage Trackers Your preference has been stored for this browser and device. If you clear your cookies, your preference will be forgotten. There was an error setting your preferences, please try again.