https://www.tbrandstudio.com/projects/love-beauty-and-planet
Igniting Eco-Action Through Education and Beauty | T Brand
skip to content 
    T Brand
  T Brand Work Method Impact Love, Beauty and Planet Igniting Eco-Action Through Education and Beauty Small acts can make a world of difference As consumers become increasingly aware of climate change, they’re growing more engaged with sustainable values as well. Yet too few are motivated to take meaningful action. Love Beauty and Planet, a Unilever brand, asked T Brand to help show them how to start. To do so, we created a colorful program that teaches readers how they can give back to the planet — as citizens, as activists and as consumers — by taking small steps that can include Love Beauty and Planet. T Brand Studio created three original animated videos, three Paid Post quizzes, custom audio programming and social content to align with World Oceans Day, Earth Day and the holiday season. In this work, we aimed to ignite action around sustainable living and build understanding around issues like recycling and single-use plastic. Take quiz #1 Take quiz #2 Take quiz #3 Previous Next T Brand lives inside the New York City headquarters of The Times. We have offices around the world. T Brand New York, London, Paris, Hong Kong tbrandstudio-info@nytimes.com Facebook | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo | YouTube Fake Love Brooklyn make@fakelove.tv Website | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo Jobs at T Brand Media Kit Privacy Terms of Service The New York Times Co. © 2020 The New York Times Company Your tracker settings We use cookies and similar methods to recognize visitors and remember their preferences. We also use them to measure ad campaign effectiveness, target ads and analyze site traffic. To learn more about these methods, including how to disable them, view our Cookie Policy. By clicking ‘accept,’ you consent to the processing of your data by us and third parties using the above methods. You can always change your tracker preferences by visiting our Cookie Policy. Accept Manage Trackers Your preference has been stored for this browser and device. If you clear your cookies, your preference will be forgotten. There was an error setting your preferences, please try again.