https://www.tbrandstudio.com/projects/trinet-people-matter
Demonstrating That When People Matter, Business Thrives | T Brand
skip to content 
    T Brand
  T Brand Work Method Impact TriNet Demonstrating That When People Matter, Business Thrives Letters of appreciation show that people matter In the world of human resources, TriNet provides services that help small- and mid-size businesses succeed. Yet for many of us, the world of HR is intangible. How do we link TriNet to the human stories that highlight all the ways it helps businesses? Business can be like an iceberg. All too often messaging focuses only on the 10 percent you can see — their products, profits and process. The other 90 percent includes all the unseen parts that are vital to success. T Brand reveals that this hidden foundation — the other 90 percent — includes all the people behind the scenes. For TriNet, people matter, and that mantra inspired all of our work. To validate TriNet’s People Matter mission, we created a cinematic two-part, 10-episode video series that featured authentic portraits of real people, faces that define the American dream. Employees shared what they love about their company with us. We then turned their words into letters of appreciation, which each C.E.O. reads aloud and responds to. The exercise creates authentic, moving moments that demonstrate what’s possible when companies put their people first. Visit page Previous Next T Brand lives inside the New York City headquarters of The Times. We have offices around the world. T Brand New York, London, Paris, Hong Kong tbrandstudio-info@nytimes.com Facebook | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo | YouTube Fake Love Brooklyn make@fakelove.tv Website | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo Jobs at T Brand Media Kit Privacy Terms of Service The New York Times Co. © 2020 The New York Times Company Your tracker settings We use cookies and similar methods to recognize visitors and remember their preferences. We also use them to measure ad campaign effectiveness, target ads and analyze site traffic. To learn more about these methods, including how to disable them, view our Cookie Policy. By clicking ‘accept,’ you consent to the processing of your data by us and third parties using the above methods. You can always change your tracker preferences by visiting our Cookie Policy. Accept Manage Trackers Your preference has been stored for this browser and device. If you clear your cookies, your preference will be forgotten. There was an error setting your preferences, please try again.