https://www.tbrandstudio.com/projects/cbs-women-drive-the-action-in-star-trek-discovery
Rediscovering a Sci-Fi Classic Where Women Command | T Brand
skip to content 
    T Brand
  T Brand Work Method Impact CBS All Access Rediscovering a Sci-Fi Classic Where Women Command Boldly going where more women should go CBS All Access challenged T Brand to create new fans — particularly women — for its latest Star Trek extension. At the same time, it was vital to connect with the franchise’s deep fanbase, borne from the show’s earlier incarnations and going back to the original series in the late 1960s. To do so, we focused on women as key to the franchise’s enduring success. Across all six series in the franchise’s half-century history, Star Trek has had a legacy of inclusion, particularly of women in leadership roles. For the latest update, T Brand shows how the creators of “Star Trek: Discovery” carry on that tradition by casting women of color in command roles. Through interviews with the show’s talent, T Brand documented Star Trek’s legacy of inclusion, from the late-1960s original series to its most recent re-invention, “Star Trek: Discovery.” Rendered with arresting, futuristic illustrations, the story concludes with teasers for the new season. Visit page Previous Next T Brand lives inside the New York City headquarters of The Times. We have offices around the world. T Brand New York, London, Paris, Hong Kong tbrandstudio-info@nytimes.com Facebook | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo | YouTube Fake Love Brooklyn make@fakelove.tv Website | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo Jobs at T Brand Media Kit Privacy Terms of Service The New York Times Co. © 2020 The New York Times Company Your tracker settings We use cookies and similar methods to recognize visitors and remember their preferences. We also use them to measure ad campaign effectiveness, target ads and analyze site traffic. To learn more about these methods, including how to disable them, view our Cookie Policy. By clicking ‘accept,’ you consent to the processing of your data by us and third parties using the above methods. You can always change your tracker preferences by visiting our Cookie Policy. Accept Manage Trackers Your preference has been stored for this browser and device. If you clear your cookies, your preference will be forgotten. There was an error setting your preferences, please try again.