https://www.tbrandstudio.com/projects/google-the-new-york-times-digital-archive
Collaborating to Digitize The Times&#39;s Photo Trove | T Brand
skip to content 
    T Brand
  T Brand Work Method Impact Google Cloud Collaborating to Digitize The Times's Photo Trove Cloud technology unlocks the past to help us better understand the present Powerful though it may be, ‘cloud’ technology remains an intangible mystery for many. To reveal the capabilities the cloud can unlock, Google partnered with The Times to digitize our enormous archive of photography. Nicknamed ‘the morgue,’ The Times’s photo cache includes millions of images, some more than a century old. A Times team is scanning the photos and using Google Cloud technology to archive and search both the images and their metadata — vital historic markings, attachments and other ephemera that accompany each image. The partnership is showing the world how the Google Cloud can deliver tangible, truly fascinating, solutions. The collaboration ranks as one of the largest in Times history, establishing a partnership between multiple teams across two pioneering brands, including engineering, marketing and content experts. Marketing extensions included an NYT x Google Cloud campaign promoting the collaboration: The Times’s Past Tense content series supported by and attributed to Google Cloud; and a Google Cloud campaign that ran across our site, explaining how cloud technology is enhancing journalism. For Times readers, the Past Tense series delivered a compelling body of visual journalism curated by The Times newsroom. From the images being brought back to life, Times photo editors are rediscovering vivid narratives and singular moments that The Times is sharing in print and digital promotions co-branded as “powered by Google Cloud.” Pause Google Cloud Times Photo Archive Previous Next T Brand lives inside the New York City headquarters of The Times. We have offices around the world. T Brand New York, London, Paris, Hong Kong tbrandstudio-info@nytimes.com Facebook | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo | YouTube Fake Love Brooklyn make@fakelove.tv Website | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo Jobs at T Brand Media Kit Privacy Terms of Service The New York Times Co. © 2020 The New York Times Company Your tracker settings We use cookies and similar methods to recognize visitors and remember their preferences. We also use them to measure ad campaign effectiveness, target ads and analyze site traffic. To learn more about these methods, including how to disable them, view our Cookie Policy. By clicking ‘accept,’ you consent to the processing of your data by us and third parties using the above methods. You can always change your tracker preferences by visiting our Cookie Policy. Accept Manage Trackers Your preference has been stored for this browser and device. If you clear your cookies, your preference will be forgotten. There was an error setting your preferences, please try again.