https://www.tbrandstudio.com/projects/shell-moving-forward
Envisioning a Lower-Carbon Future | T Brand
skip to content 
    T Brand
  T Brand Work Method Impact Shell Envisioning a Lower-Carbon Future The future of energy is coming sooner than you might imagine Energy pervades every aspect of our lives, yet we rarely truly see it. To help readers visualize energy’s role in their lives today — and to imagine what tomorrow’s zero-carbon energy world could look like — T Brand created an integrated, interactive campaign for Shell. Audiences could discover this content in multiple ways: in a mix of mediums, in various locations, on their phones, in print and in person. At the heart of the program were a series of augmented reality (AR) experiences where T Brand superimposed visions of a net-zero future onto live views of the world. In the real world, we fabricated a series of ‘magic’ windows, artfully camouflaged into sites in Brooklyn and Houston with high pedestrian traffic. On first glance, these screens looked like windows, relaying a live view of the world beyond. But when triggered, the screens mapped a vision of the future into that view. Using image-recognition and real-time data, the system identified real vehicles passing by — trucks, planes and ships — then superimposed digital images and information about tomorrow’s zero-carbon alternatives. In mobile, The Times app let us project AR renderings of tomorrow’s cleaner vehicles into our readers’ everyday reality. As users scrolled through a Paid Post, a window opened inviting them to place virtual models of future vehicles onto a nearby surface. For more information on each object, users could target a hotspot. On the mobile app, readers were also delivered narrative sidebars customized to start with one of three topics — looking at the future of flying, ocean shipping and road transport — cued by the phone’s geolocation data. Visit page Previous Next T Brand lives inside the New York City headquarters of The Times. We have offices around the world. T Brand New York, London, Paris, Hong Kong tbrandstudio-info@nytimes.com Facebook | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo | YouTube Fake Love Brooklyn make@fakelove.tv Website | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo Jobs at T Brand Media Kit Privacy Terms of Service The New York Times Co. © 2020 The New York Times Company Your tracker settings We use cookies and similar methods to recognize visitors and remember their preferences. We also use them to measure ad campaign effectiveness, target ads and analyze site traffic. To learn more about these methods, including how to disable them, view our Cookie Policy. By clicking ‘accept,’ you consent to the processing of your data by us and third parties using the above methods. You can always change your tracker preferences by visiting our Cookie Policy. Accept Manage Trackers Your preference has been stored for this browser and device. If you clear your cookies, your preference will be forgotten. There was an error setting your preferences, please try again.