https://www.tbrandstudio.com/projects/sk-ii-wonderland
Reconsidering Beauty Through Real and Virtual Experiences | T Brand
skip to content 
    T Brand
  T Brand Work Method Impact SK-II Reconsidering Beauty Through Real and Virtual Experiences Don’t just express yourself, create yourself P&G’s SK-II cosmetics brand needed to establish an emotional connection with a new generation. To fulfill consumers’ desire to create, T Brand’s experiential team at Fake Love invented a space of discovery: a physical and digital retail environment they could explore and interact with to discover different aspects of beauty. “We asked ourselves, ‘How can we give customers a newer, more liberating SK-II shopping experience?’ This store is our answer to that.” — YoeGin (Jess) Chang, P&G Japan Group, corporate executive for SK-II In a multiroom, multitouch experience, women could play with key facets of their look. Fake Love gamified the entire wonderland through augmented reality (AR), audio, video and educational technology to truly immerse the audience in an active role of creation. Previous Next T Brand lives inside the New York City headquarters of The Times. We have offices around the world. T Brand New York, London, Paris, Hong Kong tbrandstudio-info@nytimes.com Facebook | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo | YouTube Fake Love Brooklyn make@fakelove.tv Website | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo Jobs at T Brand Media Kit Privacy Terms of Service The New York Times Co. © 2020 The New York Times Company Your tracker settings We use cookies and similar methods to recognize visitors and remember their preferences. We also use them to measure ad campaign effectiveness, target ads and analyze site traffic. To learn more about these methods, including how to disable them, view our Cookie Policy. By clicking ‘accept,’ you consent to the processing of your data by us and third parties using the above methods. You can always change your tracker preferences by visiting our Cookie Policy. Accept Manage Trackers Your preference has been stored for this browser and device. If you clear your cookies, your preference will be forgotten. There was an error setting your preferences, please try again.