https://www.tbrandstudio.com/projects/facebook-watch-limetown
Investigating Real-World Mysteries to Launch a New Series | T Brand
skip to content 
    T Brand
  T Brand Work Method Impact Facebook Watch Investigating Real-World Mysteries to Launch a New Series Speculative endings provoke us to reconsider enduring mysteries Facebook Watch, a video-on-demand service, offers audiences original content free of charge. But even dedicated Facebook users aren’t familiar with its offerings. How can we change that and introduce its latest original series, “Limetown”? The show, based on a hit podcast, follows a fictional journalist as she unravels the mystery behind the disappearance of hundreds of people at a neuroscience research lab. Taking inspiration from that intriguing mix of science and sci-fi, T Brand crafted three Paid Posts that explore real-world unsolved mysteries. In each, we present the facts of the case, but throw in a twist. Users can choose their own ending to explore alternate solutions to the event, one is journalistic and fact-based, the other is speculative and fanciful. T Brand rendered these stories in a web experience where copy and design elements are artfully mis-aligned, offset by subtly mismatched typography and interspersed with moody imagery. Via a unique visual experience and branching conclusions, the three posts provoke viewers in ways that are as eerily engaging as the alternate reality explored in Facebook Watch’s new series. Visit page Previous Next T Brand lives inside the New York City headquarters of The Times. We have offices around the world. T Brand New York, London, Paris, Hong Kong tbrandstudio-info@nytimes.com Facebook | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo | YouTube Fake Love Brooklyn make@fakelove.tv Website | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo Jobs at T Brand Media Kit Privacy Terms of Service The New York Times Co. © 2020 The New York Times Company Your tracker settings We use cookies and similar methods to recognize visitors and remember their preferences. We also use them to measure ad campaign effectiveness, target ads and analyze site traffic. To learn more about these methods, including how to disable them, view our Cookie Policy. By clicking ‘accept,’ you consent to the processing of your data by us and third parties using the above methods. You can always change your tracker preferences by visiting our Cookie Policy. Accept Manage Trackers Your preference has been stored for this browser and device. If you clear your cookies, your preference will be forgotten. There was an error setting your preferences, please try again.