https://www.tbrandstudio.com/projects/hp-building-the-garage
Rebooting a Tech Pioneer&#39;s Legacy of Innovation | T Brand
skip to content 
    T Brand
  T Brand Work Method Impact HP Rebooting a Tech Pioneer's Legacy of Innovation Reclaiming a heritage of technological leadership with future-focused content HP Inc. was born in 2014, when legendary tech powerhouse Hewlett-Packard split itself in two. Where HP Enterprise focused on corporate tech services, HP Inc. set out to lead global markets in computers and printers. But first, it had to reclaim its heritage of technological leadership. T Brand developed “The Garage,” a brand website that harkens back to HP’s deep Silicon Valley roots, while demonstrating how HP is solving some of tomorrow’s thorniest technology challenges. From its iconic birth in a Palo Alto, Calif., garage in 1939, HP’s legacy is invention. T Brand is helping HP reassert its voice as an innovation leader by showcasing how HP technology solves real-world problems. To do so, T Brand journalists and strategists embedded within HP to uncover the people, discoveries and projects that drive its vision. By working from the inside out, T Brand was able to establish an authentic blueprint for HP’s stories. Drawing on the expertise and experiences of HP’s subject matter experts and business partners, T Brand planned, built and operates HP’s first global brand publishing desk. Centered around “The Garage,” HP’s blog features reported editorial, documentary films and immersive visual storytelling that substantiate HP’s past as a Silicon Valley founder and its future as a hothouse of invention. Visit The Garage by HP Previous T Brand lives inside the New York City headquarters of The Times. We have offices around the world. T Brand New York, London, Paris, Hong Kong tbrandstudio-info@nytimes.com Facebook | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo | YouTube Fake Love Brooklyn make@fakelove.tv Website | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo Jobs at T Brand Media Kit Privacy Terms of Service The New York Times Co. © 2020 The New York Times Company Your tracker settings We use cookies and similar methods to recognize visitors and remember their preferences. We also use them to measure ad campaign effectiveness, target ads and analyze site traffic. To learn more about these methods, including how to disable them, view our Cookie Policy. By clicking ‘accept,’ you consent to the processing of your data by us and third parties using the above methods. You can always change your tracker preferences by visiting our Cookie Policy. Accept Manage Trackers Your preference has been stored for this browser and device. If you clear your cookies, your preference will be forgotten. There was an error setting your preferences, please try again.