https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Convention_center
Convention center - Wikipedia
Convention center From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Building designed to hold a convention See also: List of convention and exhibition centers "Conference center" redirects here. For the building owned by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, see Conference Center (LDS Church). For other uses, see Convention Center station. This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Convention center" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (March 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) The Capitol View Conference Center in Washington, D. C. A convention center (American English; conference centre outside the USA)[1] is a large building that is designed to hold a convention, where individuals and groups gather to promote and share common interests. Convention centers typically offer sufficient floor area to accommodate several thousand attendees. Very large venues, suitable for major trade shows, are sometimes known as exhibition centres. Convention centers typically have at least one auditorium and may also contain concert halls, lecture halls, meeting rooms, and conference rooms. Some large resort area hotels include a convention center. Jumeirah Beach Hotel and Conference Centre, Dubai and Covention and Events Centre, Estel Hotel, Berlin, are two of the most impressive convention hotels.[2] Contents 1 Historic centers 1.1 19th-century exhibition halls 1.2 20th-century exhibition halls 1.3 21st-century exhibition halls 2 Image gallery 3 See also 4 References 5 External links Historic centers[edit] See also: List of world's fair architecture 19th-century exhibition halls[edit] Melbourne's Royal Exhibition Building, host of the 1880 World's Fair See also: Victorian architecture 1850 Bingley Hall (destroyed by fire in 1984), Birmingham, England[3] 1851 The Crystal Palace (destroyed by fire in 1936), London, England 1855 Palais de l'Industrie (dismantled in 1897), Paris, France 1873 Alexandra Palace, London, England[4] 1876 Memorial Hall, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States 1878 Exhibition Place, Toronto, Canada 1878 La Rural, Buenos Aires, Argentina[5] 1878 Music Hall, Cincinnati, Ohio, United States 1879 Garden Palace (destroyed by fire in 1882), Sydney, Australia 1880 Royal Exhibition Building, Melbourne, Australia 1898 Aberdeen Pavilion, Ottawa, Canada 1898–1903 Beurs van Berlage, Amsterdam, Netherlands 20th-century exhibition halls[edit] 1900 Grand Palais, Paris, France 1909 Festhalle, Frankfurt, Germany 1955 McCormick Place, Chicago, Illinois, USA 1959 Las Vegas Convention Center, Las Vegas, Nevada, USA 1974 Kenyatta International Convention Centre, Nairobi, Kenya 1976 Georgia World Congress Center, Atlanta, Georgia, USA 1979 Internationales Congress Centrum, Berlin, Germany 1981 Moscone Center, San Francisco, California, USA 1983 Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre, Hong Kong, China 1988 Washington State Convention Center, Seattle, Washington, USA 1990 Colorado Convention Center, Denver, Colorado, USA 1993 Pennsylvania Convention Center, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA 1997 Tokyo International Forum, Tokyo, Japan 21st-century exhibition halls[edit] 2001 Bethlehem Convention Palace, Bethlehem 2008 BT Convention Centre, Liverpool, UK 2008 Raleigh Convention Center, Raleigh, North Carolina, USA 2012 Convention Center Poet Ronaldo Cunha Lima, João Pessoa, Brazil 2017 AU Convention Center, Visakhapatnam, India Image gallery[edit] Exhibition Hall of the Makaryev Fair Kongresshalle Berlin – House of the Cultures of the World The Philippine International Convention Center Metro Toronto Convention Centre Siglo XXI Convention Centre in Mérida, Mexico McCormick Place in Chicago, the largest Convention center in North America The back entrance of the PBH convention center in Zuidlaren, Netherlands Jerusalem International Convention Center View of the west portion of the San Diego Convention Center from West Harbor Drive. The San Diego Convention Center is one of the largest in North America and is home to Comic-Con International Hall #6 in Pragati Maidan, New Delhi, India Pittsburgh's David L. Lawrence Convention Center, the first LEED-certified convention center in North America Corferias Exposition Center in Bogota, Colombia Oregon Convention Center in Portland, Oregon Beurs van Berlage convention center Amsterdam, the Netherlands Arusha International Conference Centre Arusha, Tanzania Birchwood Conference Centre, Johannesburg Riocentro convention center in Rio de Janeiro, the largest in Latin America, and also a 2016 Olympic venue. Convention Center Poet Ronaldo Cunha Lima in João Pessoa. See also[edit] Stadium List of convention and exhibition centers List of convention centers named after people References[edit] ^ "English definition of "convention centre"". Cambridge Dictionaries Online. Retrieved 13 March 2015. ^ Caves, R. W. (2004). Encyclopedia of the City. Routledge. p. 144. ^ "The History of Conference Centers". Lane End Conference Center. 26 January 2015. Retrieved 13 March 2015. ^ "Alexandra Palace, Muswell Hill and Wood Green, North London". The Victorian Web. Archived from the original on 23 July 2008. Retrieved 13 March 2015. ^ "La Rural | Predio Ferial de Buenos Aires - Centro de Exposiciones, Congresos, Convenciones y Eventos". www.larural.com.ar. Retrieved 2016-11-10. External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Convention centers. Historic Conference Centres of Europe v t e Tourism Types Accessible Adventure Agritourism Alternative Atomic Backpacker Bicycle touring Birth Business City Culinary Enotourism Cultural Archaeological Bookstore Heritage Militarism heritage Literary Tolkien Music Pop-culture Dark Holocaust Disaster Domestic Ecotourism Shark Experiential Experimental Extreme Fashion Garden Genealogy Geotourism Honeymoon Industrial International International volunteering Jihadi Jungle Justice LGBT Medical Dental Moon Nautical Rail Recreational drug Religious Christian Halal Kosher Rural Sacred Safaris Science Scuba Sex Child sex Female sex Slum Space Sports Stag party Suicide Sustainable Vacation Virtual Visiting friends and relatives War Wellness Wildlife Hospitality industry Bed and breakfast Boutique hotel Convention center Destination spa Front desk General manager Guest house Guest ranch Homestay Hospitality management studies Hostel Hotel Hotel manager Inn Island resort Motel Referral chain Resort Resort hotel Resort town Restaurant Seaside resort Ski resort Terminology College tour Convention (meeting) Destination marketing organization Escorted tour Excursion Factory tour Gift shop Grand Tour Holiday (vacation) Hypermobility Journey planner Package tour Passport Perpetual traveler Road trip Roadside attraction Souvenir Staycation Sunday drive Table reservation Tour bus service Tour guide Tour operator Tourism geography Tourism minister Tourism region Tourist attraction Tourist gateway Tourist trap Touron Transport Travel Travel agency Travel behavior Travel document Travel insurance Travel medicine Travel survey Travel technology Travel visa Travel warning Travel website Visitor center Travel literature Guide book Outdoor literature Travel magazines Trade associations American Bus Association American Hotel and Lodging Association American Hotel & Lodging Educational Institute BEST Education Network Caribbean Tourism Organization European Travel Commission Historical Archive on Tourism Life Beyond Tourism Musement South-East Asian Tourism Organisation Tourism Radio Travel and Tourism Competitiveness Report Wikivoyage World Federation of Travel Journalists and Writers World Tourism Organization World Tourism rankings World Travel and Tourism Council World Travel Monitor Trade fairs and events Akwaaba African Travel Market Arabian Travel Market Festival del Viaggio ITB Berlin World Tourism Day World Travel Market Lists Adjectival tourisms Attractions Bibliography Casino hotels Casinos Cities by international visitors Convention and exhibition centers Hotels Largest hotels Motels UNESCO Intangible Cultural Heritage Lists World Heritage Sites by country Category Commons WikiProject Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Convention_center&oldid=953192863" Categories: Convention centers Hidden categories: Articles with short description Articles needing additional references from March 2015 All articles needing additional references Commons category link is on Wikidata Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages العربية Čeština Deutsch Español Euskara فارسی Français 한국어 Bahasa Indonesia עברית Bahasa Melayu Nederlands 日本語 Português Русский Simple English Suomi ไทย Türkçe Українська 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 26 April 2020, at 04:19 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view