https://www.tbrandstudio.com/method
Method | T Brand
skip to content 
    T Brand
  T Brand Work Method Impact Guided by deep cultural and audience insights, T Brand creates powerful, multidimensional stories. We uncover the stories that matter. Data-backed insights drawn from The Times’s 150 million monthly global readers guide both the content we create as well as the ways we guide readers to discover it. We translate insights and data into powerful narratives. We capture real people in remarkable places doing special things. These stories are brought to life as reported articles, social stories, photo essays or short films. Others emerge as podcasts, live experiences or via emerging formats like VR/AR, voice skills and more. We guarantee that audiences encounter — and engage with — our work. We create stories that live across The New York Times Advertising platform and guarantee reach via a mix of Times channels. This work can be crafted to continue on in a brand’s social channels, as out of home placements, or anywhere your story should be told for the best impact. Pause T Brand Sizzle 2020 T Brand lives inside the New York City headquarters of The Times. We have offices around the world. T Brand New York, London, Paris, Hong Kong tbrandstudio-info@nytimes.com Facebook | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo | YouTube Fake Love Brooklyn make@fakelove.tv Website | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo Jobs at T Brand Media Kit Privacy Terms of Service The New York Times Co. © 2020 The New York Times Company Your tracker settings We use cookies and similar methods to recognize visitors and remember their preferences. We also use them to measure ad campaign effectiveness, target ads and analyze site traffic. To learn more about these methods, including how to disable them, view our Cookie Policy. By clicking ‘accept,’ you consent to the processing of your data by us and third parties using the above methods. You can always change your tracker preferences by visiting our Cookie Policy. Accept Manage Trackers Your preference has been stored for this browser and device. If you clear your cookies, your preference will be forgotten. There was an error setting your preferences, please try again.