https://www.tbrandstudio.com/impact
Impact | T Brand
skip to content 
    T Brand
  T Brand Work Method Impact Our work creates real impact — on our platforms and beyond. 262 years Total engagement time 1 million Words published 54 million Social engagements 52 countries Visited to create content 55,000 miles Pixel depth of content created People of T Brand Amber Guild President Ben James Head of Creative Ara Kurnit Managing Director of Strategy Jennifer Donahue Vice President, Financial Operations Nicole Ogoff Managing Director of Consulting Catherine Tirpak Director of Program Management Nur El Shami Director, Strategic Operations MP Dunleavey Senior Finance Editor Jeffrey Miranda Program Manager Deanna Urciuoli Associate Director for Video Nathan Reese Creative Director Evan Tarantino Senior Program Manager Nicholas Garber Senior Designer Maggie Fischer Editorial Assistant Dorian Walker Associate Director, Program Management Josh Terry Designer + Show more Toasting a well-earned T Brand wrap party, 2019. T Brand’s client services team, kings and queens all, celebrate the holidays, 2019. T Brand’s white elephant holiday gift exchange, before the gift swapping got serious, 2019. From purple gnomes to golden Cannes Lions: T Brand’s trophy stash, 2020. Behind the scenes on reporting and production trips, 2019. Selected Partners Accenture Allbirds Argentina Asics AstraZeneca Audemars Piguet Audi Banco Santander Bank of America Ben & Jerry’s Berlin Partner BMW Boucheron Brand Hong Kong Burberry Bvlgari Capgemini Capital One Cartier CBS All Access CBS All Access CA Technologies CFSI Chanel Charlotte’s Web Chevron Christian Louboutin Delta Destination Canada Dior Dorchester Collection Dove Dropbox Dupont ExxonMobil Ericsson Facebook Watch Ford Gates Foundation Genesis Global Covenant of Mayors Google Cloud GSK Hanwha HBO HP Hyundai Card Iberdrola IBM Indeed iShares by Blackrock JFOODO Loreal Foundation Mastercard Microsoft Netflix New York-Presbyterian Nord Anglia Northern Trust Novartis Panerai PayPal Pete and Gerry’s Organic Eggs Philippine Retirement Authority Rimowa Rosewood Scotland Is Now Shell Sheraton Macao SK-II Sotheby’s Realty Spotify State Street Syngenta TD Ameritrade Tempur-Pedic The New School Tokyo Convention & Visitors Bureau TriNet Love, Beauty and Planet University of Iowa U.S. Bank Vanguard Verizon Vince Visit Britain Volvo Walmart T Brand lives inside the New York City headquarters of The Times. We have offices around the world. T Brand New York, London, Paris, Hong Kong tbrandstudio-info@nytimes.com Facebook | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo | YouTube Fake Love Brooklyn make@fakelove.tv Website | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo Jobs at T Brand Media Kit Privacy Terms of Service The New York Times Co. © 2020 The New York Times Company Your tracker settings We use cookies and similar methods to recognize visitors and remember their preferences. We also use them to measure ad campaign effectiveness, target ads and analyze site traffic. To learn more about these methods, including how to disable them, view our Cookie Policy. By clicking ‘accept,’ you consent to the processing of your data by us and third parties using the above methods. You can always change your tracker preferences by visiting our Cookie Policy. Accept Manage Trackers Your preference has been stored for this browser and device. If you clear your cookies, your preference will be forgotten. There was an error setting your preferences, please try again.