https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arena
Arena - Wikipedia
Arena From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Enclosed area designed to host theater, musical performances and sporting events Madison Square Garden AccorHotels Arena Scotiabank Arena Lanxess Arena SSE Hydro For other uses, see Arena (disambiguation). This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Arena" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (September 2007) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) An arena is an enclosed area, often circular or oval-shaped, designed to showcase theatre, musical performances, or sporting events. It is composed of a large open space surrounded on most or all sides by tiered seating for spectators, and may be covered by a roof. The key feature of an arena is that the event space is the lowest point, allowing maximum visibility. Arenas are usually designed to accommodate a multitude of spectators. The word derives from Latin harena, a particularly fine-grained sand that covered the floor of ancient arenas such as the Colosseum in Rome, Italy, to absorb blood.[1] The term arena is sometimes used as a synonym for a very large venue such as Pasadena's Rose Bowl, but such a facility is typically called a stadium, especially if it does not have a roof.[citation needed] The use of one term over the other has mostly to do with the type of event. Football (be it association, rugby, gridiron, or Australian rules football) is typically played in a stadium, while basketball and ice hockey are typically played in an arena, although many of the larger arenas hold more spectators than do the stadiums of smaller colleges or high schools. There are exceptions. The home of the Duke University men's and women's basketball teams would qualify as an arena, but the facility is called Cameron Indoor Stadium. Domed stadiums, which, like arenas, are enclosed but have the larger playing surfaces and seating capacities found in stadiums, are generally not referred to as arenas in North America. There is also the sport of indoor American football (one variant of which is explicitly known as arena football), a variant of the outdoor game that is designed for the usual smaller playing surface of most arenas; variants of other traditionally outdoor sports, including box lacrosse as well as futsal and indoor soccer, also exist. The term "arena" is also used loosely to refer to any event or type of event which either literally or metaphorically takes place in such a location, often with the specific intent of comparing an idea to a sporting event. Such examples of these would be terms such as "the arena of war" or "the arena of love" or "the political arena". In many fighting games, the stage that opponents are fought in is also called an arena. An arena is often named after a name sponsor. It is common that the name changes with 4–8 years intervals. See also[edit] Architectural structure List of nonbuilding structure types Ice hockey arena Amphitheatre List of indoor arenas by capacity List of stadiums by capacity References[edit] ^ Claridge, Amanda (1998). Rome: An Oxford Archaeological Guide (First ed.). Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press, 1998. pp. 276–282. ISBN 0-19-288003-9. External links[edit] Look up arena in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Wikimedia Commons has media related to Indoor arenas. v t e Infrastructure Bridge Canal Causeway Dam Drainage Footbridge Interchange Levee Overpass Road Skyway Storm drain Tunnel See also: Architecture Arena Civil engineering Construction Playground Stadium Theatre Urban park Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Arena&oldid=953192825" Categories: Music venues Sports venues by type Buildings and structures by type Hidden categories: Articles with short description Articles needing additional references from September 2007 All articles needing additional references All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from August 2011 Commons category link is locally defined Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages العربية Azərbaycanca Беларуская Български Čeština Dansk Deutsch Eesti Esperanto فارسی Français Galego 한국어 Hrvatski Ido Bahasa Indonesia Italiano עברית Nederlands 日本語 Polski Português Română Русский Scots Simple English Slovenščina Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Svenska Türkçe Українська Tiếng Việt Zazaki 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 26 April 2020, at 04:19 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view