https://www.tbrandstudio.com/cookie-policy/
Cookie Policy | T Brand
skip to content 
    T Brand
  T Brand Work Method Impact Cookie Policy LAST REVISED ON MARCH 17th, 2020 This Cookie Policy explains how we use cookies and similar tracking methods (such as pixels, SDKs, JavaScript, device identifiers, etc., which we refer to as “trackers”) when you visit our site. “Our site” means our websites, emails, apps and other services that link to this Cookie Policy. For a complete list of our cookie policies covering all Times properties, visit this page. This policy explains what various tracking methods are, and why they are used. It also explains your right to control their use. We may change this Cookie Policy at any time. Check the “last revised” date at the top of this page to see when this Cookie Policy was last revised. Any change becomes effective when we post the revised Cookie Policy on or through our site. If you have any questions, please contact us by email at privacy@nytimes.com. You can also write to us: The New York Times Company, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018, attn.: Privacy Counsel. 1. What Is a Tracker? We use a variety of tracker methods; six of the main types are explained below. Cookies A cookie is a small string of text that a website (or online service) stores on a user’s browser. It saves data on your browser about your visit to our site or other sites. It often includes a unique identifier (e.g., cookie #123). “First-party cookies” are cookies set by us (or on our behalf) on our site. “Third-party cookies” are cookies set by other companies whose functionality is embedded into our site (e.g., google.com). “Session cookies” are temporary cookies stored on your device while you visit our site. They expire when you close your browser. “Persistent cookies” are stored on your browser for a period of time after you leave our site. Persistent cookies expire on a set expiration date, or when they are deleted manually. You can choose whether to accept cookies by editing your browser settings. However, if cookies are refused, your experience on our site may be worse, and some features may not work as intended. Pixels Pixels (also known as “web beacons,” “GIFs” or “bugs”) are one-pixel transparent images located on web pages or messages. They track whether you have opened these web pages or messages. Upon firing, a pixel logs a visit to the current page or message and may read or set cookies. Pixels often rely on cookies to work, so turning off cookies can impair them. But even if you turn off cookies, pixels can still detect a web page visit. Javascript JavaScript is a programming language. It can be used to write trackers that, when embedded into a page, allow us to measure how you interact with our site and other sites. Software Development Kits (or SDKs) SDKs are pieces of code provided by our digital vendors (e.g., third-party advertising companies, ad networks and analytics providers) in our mobile apps to collect and analyze certain device and user data. Device Identifiers Device identifiers are user-resettable identifiers comprised of numbers and letters. They are unique to a specific device. They are stored directly on the device. These include Apple’s ID For Advertisers (IDFA) and Google’s Android Advertising ID (AAID). They are used to recognize you and/or your devices(s) on, off and across different apps and devices for marketing and advertising purposes. ID Synching In order to decide what type of ad might interest you, our digital and marketing vendors sometimes link data — inferred from your browsing of other sites or collected from other sources — using a method known as “ID synching” or “cookie synching.” To do this, they match the tracker ID they have assigned to you with one or more tracker IDs that are held in another company’s database and that are likely also associated with you. Any of the linked trackers may have certain interests and other demographic information attributed to it. That information is then used to determine which ad to show you. 2. What Trackers Do We Use? Below is a list of the types of trackers that appear on our site. Analytics Trackers Analytics trackers collect or use information about your site use, which helps us improve our site. Among the uses of analytics trackers are to show us which pages are most frequently visited, help us record difficulties you have with our site, track subscription purchases and behaviors leading to subscription purchases, and measure how well ads perform. These trackers add up our readers’ visits to show us larger patterns in our audience. We look at these larger patterns to analyze site traffic. Tracker name Description of purpose If tracker is a cookie, is the cookie persistent or a session cookie? When do persistent cookies expire? If tracker is a cookie, 1st party (set by the site being visited) or 3rd party across different sites? Indicate 3rd party (full legal name and URL to cookie policy) _ga Used by Google Analytics to distinguish users. Persistent; 2 years 3rd party - google.com _gid Used by Google Analytics to distinguish users. Persistent; 24 hours 3rd party - google.com _gat Used by Google Analytics to throttle request rate. Persistent; 1 minute 3rd party - google.com 3. How Do I Manage Trackers? When you first come to our site, you may receive a notification that trackers are present. By clicking or tapping “accept,” you agree to the use of these trackers as described here. You can manage your tracker settings by opting out of specific (or all) trackers. To opt out of all third-party trackers, please follow the instructions for your browser as well as the Ad Choices and Online Choices paragraphs below. In addition to the options above, you can refuse or accept trackers from our site (or any other site) in your browser’s settings. If you refuse trackers, you might not be able to sign in or use other tracker-dependent features of our site. Most browsers automatically accept cookies, but this is typically something you can adjust. Information for each browser can be found in the links below: Safari on desktop and Safari Mobile (iPhone and iPads): Note that, by default, Safari is engineered to protect you from being tracked from site to site unless you disable Intelligent Tracking Prevention (ITP). Firefox: By default, Firefox protects you from cross-site tracking so long as you have not disabled Enhanced Tracking Protection (ETP). There is therefore less need to manage cookies to protect your privacy. Chrome Microsoft Edge: Enabling tracking prevention with Edge will protect you from being tracked between sites, such that there will be less of a need to manage your cookies in order to protect your privacy. Samsung Internet Browser Brave: Brave has several mechanisms to keep you from being tracked online, but you can change your privacy settings if you wish to have greater control over its decisions. For more information about other browsers, please refer to this “All About Cookies” guide. To opt out of Google Analytics data collection, follow these Google instructions. To reset your device identifier, follow Google instructions and Apple instructions. If the Site has ads, the third-party advertisers, ad agencies and other vendors with which we work may be members of the Network Advertising Initiative, the Digital Advertising Alliance Self-Regulatory Program for Online Behavioural Advertising and/or the European Digital Advertising Alliance. To opt out of interest-based advertising from the participating companies, please visit AboutAds.info or the European Digital Advertising Alliance for laptops and NAI Mobile Choices or AppChoices for mobile devices. Note that opting out through these channels does not mean you will no longer see ads. You will still receive other types of ads from these companies, and any type of ad from nonparticipating companies. The sites you visit may still collect your information for other purposes. T Brand lives inside the New York City headquarters of The Times. We have offices around the world. T Brand New York, London, Paris, Hong Kong tbrandstudio-info@nytimes.com Facebook | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo | YouTube Fake Love Brooklyn make@fakelove.tv Website | Instagram | Twitter | Vimeo Jobs at T Brand Media Kit Privacy Terms of Service The New York Times Co. © 2020 The New York Times Company Your tracker settings We use cookies and similar methods to recognize visitors and remember their preferences. We also use them to measure ad campaign effectiveness, target ads and analyze site traffic. To learn more about these methods, including how to disable them, view our Cookie Policy. By clicking ‘accept,’ you consent to the processing of your data by us and third parties using the above methods. You can always change your tracker preferences by visiting our Cookie Policy. Accept Manage Trackers Your preference has been stored for this browser and device. If you clear your cookies, your preference will be forgotten. There was an error setting your preferences, please try again.