http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/site/usercontent/usercontent.html
Comments – Help
HOME Help | Account | Contact Help Contact The New York Times Contact The New York Times Comments 1. What kind of comments are you looking for? We are interested in articulate, well-informed remarks that are relevant to the article. We welcome your advice, your criticism and your unique insights into the issues of the day. To be approved for publication, your comments should be civil and avoid name-calling. Our standards for taste are reflected in the articles we publish in the newspaper and on NYTimes.com; we expect your comments to follow that example. A few things we won't tolerate: personal attacks, obscenity, vulgarity, profanity (including expletives and letters followed by dashes), commercial promotion, impersonations, incoherence and SHOUTING. 2. Why do you moderate readers' comments? Our goal is to provide substantive commentary for a general readership. By screening submissions, we have created a space where readers can exchange intelligent and informed commentary that enhances the quality of our news and information. While most comments will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive, moderation decisions are subjective. Our Community desk will make them as carefully and consistently as we can. Because of the volume of reader comments, we cannot review individual moderation decisions with readers and generally cannot alter a comment once it is posted. Learn more about how we moderate reader comments. 3. How do I write a comment? The first time you write a comment, you will be asked to complete a quick registration process. It should take you no more than one minute. You will be asked for a display name and your location. Both of these items will be displayed publicly on NYTimes.com. If you are writing a comment, please be thoughtful, civil and articulate. In the vast majority of cases, we only accept comments written in English; foreign language comments will be rejected. 4. Why are comments closed on an article? The vast majority of comments are reviewed by a human moderator. Because of this, the number of comments that we are capable of moderating each day is limited. Typically, comment threads are open for 24 hours. After that point, we move to newer news. It is unfortunate that some of these discussions do not have the chance to further evolve, but the benefit is that we're able to host a civil comments section. 5. Why do I have to register? We ask you to complete the simple NYTimes.com registration process to ensure that you are a "real" person and that you accept our terms and conditions. The registration process serves to facilitate the development of our online community, and ensure that members take responsibility for their writings. 6. When and where will my comment be published? Since comments are moderated, they do not appear on the site until they have been approved. Comments are typically posted faster during business hours. Moderation can be less frequent in the evening and on weekends. We reserve the right to display comments in a variety of ways, including within the text of articles or in advertisements. 7. Do you edit comments? No. Comments are either approved or rejected. We reserve the right to edit a comment that is quoted or excerpted on NYTimes.com or on our affiliate blogs. In those cases, we may fix spelling, grammar or punctuation. 8. What are NYT Picks? NYT Picks are a selection of comments that represent a range of views and are judged the most interesting or thoughtful. In some cases, NYT Picks may be selected to highlight comments from a particular region, or readers with first-hand knowledge of an issue. 9. I found an inappropriate comment. What do I do? Click Flag at the bottom right of a comment, select the reasons you believe it should be removed and submit the report. If you suspect that a comment has been posted by a political propaganda network or contains deliberate misinformation, please flag that comment for spam. Flagged comments are never automatically removed from the site. Flagged comments will be further reviewed by the Community desk. 10. Should I use my real name and location when making a comment? Using your real name is not required. We understand that many readers do not wish to be publicly identified, and we support your desire to protect your privacy. However, your location will help our journalists make sure that your comments are properly promoted in articles that concern your region. We recommend against posting your full email address, for security reasons. A reminder: Once your comment is published, it can be found in search results on websites like Google and Yahoo. A New York Times staffer may occasionally use the email address you have listed in the My Account area for a follow-up interview. For more information, please see our Privacy Policy. 11. What about criticism of The Times? We welcome strong opinions and criticism of our work, and do not hesitate to approve critical comments. However, personal attacks against our staff will not be permitted, and any criticism should relate to the article in question. Generally, we will not allow comments to become bogged down with discussions of our moderation policies, and we will moderate accordingly. 12. Why didn't I get my confirmation email? The confirmation email is sent automatically, but it may take a little while before it arrives in your Inbox. Also, you may want to make sure that we have your current email address associated with your registration. In addition, please be sure that the email notification checkbox underneath the comment submission form is selected for each of your submissions. If you think you are having problems receiving email from NYTimes.com, please contact Customer Care. 13. Can I use a different display name for some comments? You are free to change your display name. However, in the future, these changes may apply to your previous comments. 14. Should I post new information about a breaking news story? What if I see an error in an article? What is the best way to suggest a correction? We appreciate it when readers and people quoted in articles point out errors of fact or emphasis and will investigate all assertions. These suggestions should be sent via email. To avoid distracting other readers, we won't publish comments that suggest a correction. Instead, corrections will be made in a blog post or at the top of an article, and also can be found on the main Corrections page. To send a message about news coverage, email nytnews@nytimes.com or call toll-free at 800-NYTIMES (800-698-4637). Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to 212-556-3622. 15. What if I have more questions? If you have additional questions regarding comments on NYTimes.com, please contact us. Can't find what you're looking for? Review our Help topics or chat with one of our Customer Care advocates. Return to top © The New York Times Company Contact Us Work with us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Sitemap Help Subscriptions