https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014887628-Social-login
Social login – Help
HOME Help | Account | Contact Help Digital access Learn about digital access Social login What is social login? Social and third-party login allows you to use your existing login information from another site, such as Facebook, Google or Apple, to sign in to NYTimes.com and NYT apps. Please note Apple third-party login is not available in the Android apps. Social and third-party login is not required. You can also register or log in using your email address. Will The New York Times share any information with my social networks? When you use social or third-party login, we will not share your information with, or post to, your social networks without your permission. How do I connect my Facebook, Google or Apple account with my New York Times account? You can connect your Facebook, Google or Apple account to your existing New York Times account by visiting your profile page. Click or tap Use Facebook, Use Google or Use Apple. You will be prompted to enter your Facebook, Google or Apple account information. A message should then appear stating that your account has been linked. You should also see this change reflected on your profile page. Please note that Apple login is not available on Android devices. Can I link an existing New York Times account with a social or third-party account associated with a different email address? Yes. To do so, log in to your New York Times account, visit your profile and click Use Facebook or Use Google or Use Apple. Can I unlink my Facebook or Google account from my New York Times account? Yes. If you would like to unlink your accounts, log in to your New York Times account, visit your profile and click Disconnect Facebook, Disconnect Google or Disconnect Apple. I linked my Facebook, Google or Apple account with my New York Times account, but I can't log In. What can I do? Verify that you are using the Facebook, Google or Apple account that you linked with your New York Times account. If you are still unable to access your account, text 855-419-6348 or contact Customer Care. How do I log in using Apple if I choose to use a private relay email address? When linking your Apple account to your New York Times account, you have the option of hiding your email address.If you choose this option, Apple will share a uniquely-generated address with The New York Times called a private relay email address instead of sharing your personal email address. If you created your New York Times account using a private relay email address, you will be required to log in using your private relay email address on any non-macOS/iOS device. To view the private relay email address associated with your NYT account, go to your Apple device’s account settings (Settings > Apple ID > Password & Security > Apps Using Your Apple ID). Can't find what you're looking for? Review our Help topics or chat with one of our Customer Care advocates. Return to top © The New York Times Company Contact Us Work with us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Sitemap Help Subscriptions