http://www.nytimes.com/subscriptions/Multiproduct/lp4021.html?campaignId=393LW
The New York Times: Digital and Home Delivery Subscriptions
We use cookies and similar technologies to recognize your repeat visits and preferences, as well as to measure the effectiveness of campaigns and analyze traffic. To learn more about cookies, including how to disable them, view our Cookie Policy. By clicking “I accept” or “X” on this banner or using our site, you consent to the use of cookies unless you have disabled them. I ACCEPT Why The Times? What You Get Pricing More Options Home Delivery Academic Rates Group Subscriptions Cooking Crossword Gift Log in Give the gift they’ll open every day. Subscriptions to The Times. Starting at $25. READER FAVORITE BASIC SUBSCRIPTION Unlimited articles online and in the app. Billing information: you will be automatically charged $8.00 every 4 weeks for one year, then $15.00 every 4 weeks thereafter. You may cancel at any time. By subscribing, you are accepting the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Terms of Sale. $49 $25 for 3 months $98 $40 for 6 months $195 $75 for 12 months GIVE THIS GIFT https://myaccount.nytimes.com Buy with Unlimited articles Enjoy articles anywhere via nytimes.com and in the New York Times app. Subscriber exclusives Access exclusive features and newsletters, along with previews of new releases. NYT COOKING SUBSCRIPTION 19,000+ recipes and helpful tutorials. Billing information: you will be automatically charged $8.00 every 4 weeks for one year, then $15.00 every 4 weeks thereafter. You may cancel at any time. By subscribing, you are accepting the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Terms of Sale. $40 for 12 months GIVE THIS GIFT https://myaccount.nytimes.com Buy with Explore recipes Times-tested and approved, for every appetite. Sharpen your skills with helpful guides and tutorials. Save recipes from anywhere online in your Recipe Box. What’s Included NYT CROSSWORD SUBSCRIPTION Unlimited digital access to the Crossword. Billing information: you will be automatically charged $8.00 every 4 weeks for one year, then $15.00 every 4 weeks thereafter. You may cancel at any time. By subscribing, you are accepting the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Terms of Sale. $40 for 12 months GIVE THIS GIFT https://myaccount.nytimes.com Buy with Solve puzzles that cater to every skill level. Access our 25-year archive of crosswords to become a better player. Play other word games like Spelling Bee and Letter Boxed. What’s Included ALL ACCESS SUBSCRIPTION Unlimited articles + NYT Cooking + Crossword Billing information: you will be automatically charged $8.00 every 4 weeks for one year, then $15.00 every 4 weeks thereafter. You may cancel at any time. By subscribing, you are accepting the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Terms of Sale. $82 $50 for 3 months $163 $80 for 6 months $325 $150 for 12 months GIVE THIS GIFT https://myaccount.nytimes.com Buy with Unlimited articles on nytimes.com and in the New York Times app. Priority access to new programming and subscriber exclusives. NYT Cooking featuring guides, lessons and 19,000+ recipes. The Crossword including a 25-year archive, available on any device. What’s Included PRINT SUBSCRIPTION Home Delivery + unlimited articles online and in the app Billing information: you will be automatically charged $8.00 every 4 weeks for one year, then $15.00 every 4 weeks thereafter. You may cancel at any time. By subscribing, you are accepting the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Terms of Sale. $120 $60 for 3 months $239.98 $119.99 for 6 months $479.96 $239.98 for 12 months GIVE THIS GIFT https://myaccount.nytimes.com Buy with Unlimited articles on nytimes.com and in the New York Times app. Priority access to new programming and subscriber exclusives. Print-only sections and long-form reads, like The New York Times For Kids. Customizable, U.S. delivery that’s convenient and reliable. Special invites and savings on events. What’s Included plus-icon check Example Home Delivery pricing for Saturday-Sunday delivery in the New York metropolitan area. Comparable promotional pricing available for other regions/locations and delivery frequencies. Subscribers receive free All Access Digital with a Home Delivery subscription. A gift code recipient may not apply the gift to an existing subscription; it may be applied only to a new subscription or different subscription type. The gift subscription period begins the day it is redeemed by the recipient. Does not apply to e-reader editions. Mobile apps are not supported on all devices. Other restrictions may apply. Offers and pricing are subject to change without notice. Not looking for a gift? Head to our subscription page. Not looking for a gift? Head to our subscription page. Frequently Asked Questions What are gift subscriptions? Gift subscriptions are a way for you to give the gift of The New York Times. They are available for different access levels (e.g., digital news, home delivery, Cooking, Crosswords) and for varying lengths of time. For more information on the access provided in each package, see the Digital Subscriptions FAQ. Can I purchase a gift subscription for someone who is already a subscriber? Yes. However, the gift needs to be for different products. For example, if someone has a Basic digital subscription to read the news, you could purchase a Cooking or Crossword gift for them, and vice versa. How is the gift subscription delivered? Can I schedule the delivery of my gift? For digital gifts (including news, Cooking and Crossword), you will be required to supply a recipient email address and date for the recipient to be informed of their gift during the purchase. An email containing a redemption code is sent to the recipient email address you provide on the date you specify. The email will also include a short gift message that you provide during the order process. Please note: access to the gift subscription will begin once the code is redeemed by the recipient. For Home Delivery gifts, you will be required to supply a recipient delivery address and delivery initiation date during the purchase. Can I purchase multiple gift subscriptions? Yes. After completing a gift purchase select the Buy Another Gift button. We accept major credit cards and PayPal. Orders are a one-time payment and are processed at the time of purchase. View all FAQ Copyright ©2020 Do not sell my personal information About The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Terms of Sale Help Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Feedback Subscriptions Pricing Home Delivery NYT Cooking NYT Crossword Gift Subscriptions Education Rates Group Subscriptions plus-icon check