https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015919807-Gift-subscriptions
Gift subscriptions – Help
HOME Help | Account | Contact Help Learn about subscriptions About subscriptions Gift subscriptions For Gift Purchasers: 1. What are gift subscriptions? Gift subscriptions are a way for you to give the gift of The New York Times. They are available for different New York Times products like digital news, home delivery, Cooking and Crosswords. We currently offer 3-month, 6-month, and 12-month gift subscriptions. Give a gift subscription now » We’ve included more information on what’s included in each package below: BASIC SUBSCRIPTION Get unlimited articles on any device. Enjoy unlimited article access on NYTimes.com and in the NYTimes app. Access exclusive features and newsletters, along with previews of new media releases. ALL ACCESS SUBSCRIPTION Get unlimited articles, NYT Cooking and the Crossword on any device. Enjoy unlimited article access on NYTimes.com and in the NYTimes app. Receive priority access to new programming exclusives. Access NYT Crossword, including a 20-year archive, on any device. Access NYT Cooking featuring guides, lessons, and 19,000+ recipes. ALL ACCESS + PRINT SUBSCRIPTION Get The New York Times paper delivered, plus the full digital experience. Enjoy unlimited article access on NYTimes.com and in the NYTimes app. Receive priority access to new programming and subscriber exclusives. Access NYT Crossword, including a 20-year archive, on any device. Access NYT Cooking featuring guides, lessons, and 19,000+ recipes. Share two bonus subscriptions with anyone you’d like. Receive print-only sections like The New York Times For Kids. Get customizable, reliable delivery available in the U.S. Enjoy special savings and invites for events. 2. Can I purchase a gift subscription for someone who is already a subscriber? Yes. However, the gift needs to be for different products. For example, if someone has a Basic digital subscription to read the news, you could purchase a Cooking or Crosswords gift for them, and vice versa. 3. How is the gift subscription delivered? Can I schedule the delivery of my gift? For digital gifts (including news, Cooking, and Crosswords), you will be required to supply a recipient email address and date for the recipient to be informed of their gift, following your purchase. An email containing a redemption code is sent to the recipient email address you provide on the date you choose. The email will also include a short gift message that you provide during the order process. Please note: access to the gift subscription will begin once the code is redeemed by the recipient. For Home Delivery gifts, you will be required to provide a recipient delivery address and delivery start date during the purchase process, in addition to an email address for the recipient to be informed of their gift. 4. Can I purchase multiple gift subscriptions? Yes. After completing a gift purchase click or tap the Buy Another Gift button. This will take you back to the main gift page so that you can choose a new gift to purchase. 5. I tried to give a gift subscription and the recipient never got the redemption email — what should I do? The redemption email will not be sent until the purchase transaction has successfully been charged and until the delivery date specified during the purchase process. You can verify the date specified by checking your gift purchase email confirmation that you will receive directly following your purchase. This confirmation email sent to you will also include the redemption code for the gift recipient. You can share the redemption code with the gift recipient if they do not receive an email from The New York Times, or are unable to find the email. If that date has passed and the recipient still hasn’t received the redemption email, or if you are unable to find your confirmation email, please contact Customer Care. 6. What are the terms of sale for gift subscriptions? The full purchase price for gift subscriptions will be charged at the time of purchase and is nonrefundable. Gift subscriptions are one-time purchases. For more information, see the Terms of Sale. Redemption codes are not replaceable. Please note: additional or different terms may apply for complimentary gift subscriptions. 7. How are gift subscription purchases billed? We accept major credit cards and PayPal. Orders are a one-time payment and are processed at the time of purchase. For Gift Recipients: 1. I received a gift subscription — what do I get? Activating a gift subscription gives you digital access to NYTimes.com content. Your access depends on the particular gift subscription you received (e.g., Basic digital subscription, Cooking, Crosswords, Home Delivery). 2. What is a gift redemption code? A gift redemption code is what allows The New York Times to recognize you as the recipient of a gift subscription. You receive this code in an email notifying you that you’ve received a gift. You must use this code when you redeem your gift in order to activate your gift subscription. 3. How do I redeem my gift code? To redeem your code, click or tap on the Redeem button in the gift subscription email you received. You can also go to https://www.nytimes.com/code/redeem and enter the redemption code provided in the email. Once you’ve entered the code, follow the prompts to begin your subscription. 4. When does my gift subscription begin? Your subscription begins as soon as you redeem the code. You can redeem your gift code here: https://www.nytimes.com/code/redeem 5. What happens when my gift subscription period ends? You will no longer have unlimited access to the NYTimes.com website and the NYTimes apps that were included in your subscription. If you would like to regain unlimited access, you may purchase a subscription. We will also notify you via email when your gift subscription is going to end to give you the option of purchasing a subscription to extend your access. 6. Do I have to log in or create an account to redeem my code? Yes. Your redemption code enables you to start your gift subscription. During the redemption process you will be asked to either sign in (if you already have an account) or create an account to use your gift. 7. I’m having trouble redeeming my code. What should I do? If you are receiving an error when trying to redeem your code on the redemption page, please try the following: Verify you are logged in to a nytimes.com account (use an existing account or create a new one) Verify the nytimes.com account you are logged into is not already associated with a New York Times subscription. You can do this by going to your Account page and looking under Subscription Details. If you are still having trouble, you can contact Customer Care. 8. What should I do if I received a gift subscription, but I am already a New York Times subscriber? If you receive a gift subscription for a New York Times subscription you already have (e.g., you have been gifted a Basic digital subscription and already have a Basic digital subscription) or partly have (e.g., you have been gifted an All Access Digital gift subscription which includes Crosswords and already have a Crosswords subscription), you can give your code to someone else or cancel your current subscription to redeem. 9. May I share my digital access code with someone else? Yes. However, please note that codes can only be redeemed once — you can only give your code to a friend or family member if the code hasn't been redeemed. 10. Can I extend the length of the subscription I am receiving with my digital access code? You can extend your New York Times digital access following the end of your gift subscription period in two ways. Gift redemption: During the redemption process, you may have the option to sign up for an ongoing digital subscription. Your digital subscription will start immediately after your gift subscription period ends. The digital subscription you sign up for will grant the same access as your gift redemption code (for example, after receiving a Basic Digital access gift subscription, will be able to sign up for a Basic Digital access subscription for when your gift ends during the redemption process). Contact Customer Care: At any time in the course of your gift subscription should you wish to extend your access, you can reach out to Customer Care. One of our Care Advocates can assist you with options for different New York Times subscriptions. If you wish to sign up for a different type of subscription, you can also contact Customer Care. 11. What happens if I lose my gift redemption code? If you are unable to find the email you received with the redemption code, you can reach out to the friend or family member who purchased the New York Times gift subscription. The gift giver will also have received your unique redemption code via email and can share it with you. You can also contact Customer Care — you will need to provide the email address of the person who gave you the gift. Can't find what you're looking for? Review our Help topics or chat with one of our Customer Care advocates. Return to top © The New York Times Company Contact Us Work with us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Sitemap Help Subscriptions