http://www.nytimes.com/pages/world/index.html
World News - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index World News Today’s Paper AdvertisementContinue reading the main story World News Africa Americas Asia Australia Canada Europe Middle East Highlights Photo CreditSamuel Aranda for The New York Times Europe Prepares for a Coronavirus Summer: Live Updates The virus was found in tiny droplets at two Chinese hospitals, the first real-world examples that airborne transmission may be possible. Photo CreditAndrea Mantovani for The New York Times Pandemic Shakes France’s Faith in a Cornerstone: Strong Central Government Local governments are now challenging the primacy of the centralized state, the foundation of French society, after it allowed supplies of virus-fighting masks and test kits to be depleted. By Norimitsu Onishi and Constant Méheut Photo CreditHenry Nicholls/Reuters It’s a Boy: Boris Johnson and Carrie Symonds Announce Birth of 1st Child The prime minister of Britain and Ms. Symonds, who both recently battled the coronavirus, have said they planned to be married this summer. By Mark Landler Photo CreditAndres Kudacki for The New York Times ‘Life Has to Go On’: How Sweden Has Faced the Virus Without a Lockdown The country was an outlier in Europe, trusting its people to voluntarily follow the protocols. Many haven’t, but it does not seem to have hurt them. By Thomas Erdbrink and Christina Anderson Photo CreditMarco Bertorello/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images Genoa’s New Bridge Nears Completion, Turning Tragedy Into Hope Nearly two years after 43 people died when a bridge collapsed, its replacement, built in record time, has become a symbol of Italian can-do. By Elisabetta Povoledo Photo CreditMohamed Abdelhakim/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images War Within War: As Saudi Prince Edges Away from Yemen, His Allies Feud A declaration of self-rule by Yemeni separatists has complicated Saudi efforts to withdraw from the war. By Declan Walsh Photo CreditHeiko Junge/NTB scanpix, via Associated Press Tom Hagen, Wealthy Businessman in Norway, Charged in Wife’s Killing The authorities have announced that the kidnapping of Anne-Elisabeth Hagen may have been fabricated by her husband, Tom Hagen, one of Norway’s wealthiest businessmen. By Henrik Pryser Libell and Richard Martyn-Hemphill Photo CreditAndy Wong/Associated Press China Mounts Aggressive Defense to Calls for Coronavirus Compensation Beijing has adopted a “no-holds barred” diplomatic push to quash criticism of its handling of the outbreak and to fend off efforts, including by President Trump, to hold it financially accountable. By Damien Cave and Amy Qin Photo CreditAris Messinis/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images Greece Has ‘Defied the Odds’ in the Pandemic The Greeks have been dogged by years of instability, but their government’s response to the coronavirus has won praise from citizens. By Iliana Magra AdvertisementContinue reading the main story The Coronavirus OutbreakMore in The Coronavirus Outbreak » Photo CreditSaul Martinez for The New York Times ‘Will You Help Save My Brother?’: The Scramble to Find Covid-19 Plasma Donors A doctor stricken with Covid-19 was running out of options. His family mounted a search for a donor whose plasma might help. By Audra D. S. Burch and Amy Harmon Photo CreditJonah Markowitz for The New York Times Mayor Breaks Up Crowd at Rabbi’s Funeral: Latest Updates Mayor Bill de Blasio called the gathering in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, “absolutely unacceptable,” but some leaders accused him of a double standard. Photo CreditJustin Sullivan/Getty Images Despite Trump’s Nudging, Schools Are Likely to Stay Shut for Months Most districts have no plans to end online lessons soon, and reopening will bring significant changes, educators say. By Shawn Hubler, Erica L. Green and Dana Goldstein Photo CreditGabriela Bhaskar for The New York Times Trump Vows More Coronavirus Testing, but Less Than What May Be Needed The president’s announcement came after weeks of him insisting that states had plenty of tests. By Sheryl Gay Stolberg Photo CreditJohn Moore/Getty Images C.D.C. Adds New Symptoms to Its List of Possible Covid-19 Signs Chills, muscle pain, sore throat and headache are among the ailments now considered potential indicators of the disease. By Pam Belluck Inside the OutbreakMore in Inside the Outbreak » Photo CreditLam Yik Fei for The New York Times When Your Restaurant’s Star Dish Is Blamed for Spreading Coronavirus As restaurants around the world close or retool to enforce social distancing, Hong Kong’s hot pot eateries offer a cautionary tale and some good advice. By Elaine Yu Photo CreditAlessandro Penso for The New York Times Rome’s Homeless Don’t Have the Luxury of Staying Home How do you wash your hands without a sink? Stock up on food without money? Or shelter in place when you live on the streets? Charities in the Italian capital are struggling to respond. By Elisabetta Povoledo Photo CreditAziza Albetova ‘The Face of the Coronavirus’: A Hong Kong Student Shunned in Italy Since arriving in Bologna, Ciara Lo said she has been discriminated against at a bank and a police station because she is Chinese. By Tiffany May Photo CreditBlazej Mikula Making a Plague Movie, With Coronavirus on the Doorstep A British film crew shooting in Italy suddenly found concern about the coronavirus encroaching, including a text from the director’s mother. By Alex Marshall Photo CreditLauren DeCicca for The New York Times He Drove Her to the Hospital. She Gave Him the Coronavirus. Taxi and bus drivers are on the forefront of the spread of the coronavirus in Asia, even as a tourism downturn hurts their business. By Hannah Beech AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Violence in Latin AmericaMore in Violence in Latin America » Photo CreditTyler Hicks/The New York Times Where the Police Wear Masks, and the Bodies Pile Up Fast The police killed an average of 17 people every day in Brazil last year, and rogue officers are killing even more off duty. “I’m a hero to my people,” one militia leader said. By Azam Ahmed Photo CreditAlexandra Garcia/The New York Times He Was One of Mexico’s Deadliest Assassins. Then He Turned on His Cartel. “They took away everything left in me that was human and made me a monster,” said the hit man. By Azam Ahmed and Paulina Villegas Photo CreditTyler Hicks/The New York Times How American Gun Laws Are Fueling Jamaica’s Homicide Crisis Hundreds of thousands of guns sold in the United States vanish because of loose American gun laws. Many reappear on the Caribbean island, turning its streets into battlefields. By Azam Ahmed and Tyler Hicks Photo CreditMeridith Kohut for The New York Times Women Are Fleeing Death at Home. The U.S. Wants to Keep Them Out. Violence against women is driving an exodus of migrants from Central America, but the Trump administration is determined to deny them asylum. By Azam Ahmed and Meridith Kohut and Daniel Berehulak Photo CreditTyler Hicks/The New York Times Inside Gang Territory in Honduras: ‘Either They Kill Us or We Kill Them.’ The Times spent weeks with a group of young men as they fought for their lives in Honduras. All they had was a few blocks in one of the world’s deadliest cities. They would die to protect it. DispatchesMore in Dispatches » Photo CreditAdam Dean for The New York Times Jakarta’s Trash Mountain: ‘When People Are Desperate for Jobs, They Come Here’ The scavengers who make a living picking plastic, metal and even bones from a huge landfill face additional misery as the global economic slowdown closes the recycling centers they count on. By Adam Dean and Richard C. Paddock Photo CreditPippa Fowles/10 Downing Street, via Shutterstock U.K. Coronavirus Briefings Offer a More Genteel Spin Than Trump’s Downing Street’s daily updates are worlds away from the White House’s in tone, but they share a purpose: to control the narrative and deflect blame over a heavily criticized response. By Mark Landler Photo CreditAndrea Mantovani for The New York Times Denuded of Tourists, Paris Reveals Its Old Beating Heart With the mobs of visitors gone, the city once again belongs to the Parisians. And, of course, to “les microbes.” By Adam Nossiter Photo CreditEmile Ducke for The New York Times A Closed Border Can’t Stop This Elderly Couple: ‘Love Is the Best Thing in the World’ The coronavirus crisis has separated families and severed supply chains. But a pair of lovers, 89 and 85, have found a romantic way to keep (almost) in touch. By Patrick Kingsley Photo CreditNoriko Hayashi for The New York Times Tokyo, in a State of Emergency, Yet Still Having Drinks at a Bar Tokyo may have been lulled into complacency during the weeks when Japan contained the coronavirus while avoiding economically devastating lockdowns, our bureau chief writes. By Motoko Rich and Noriko Hayashi AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Promises MadeMore in Promises Made » Photo CreditVictor Moriyama for The New York Times As Bolsonaro Keeps Amazon Vows, Brazil’s Indigenous Fear ‘Ethnocide’ President Jair Bolsonaro is moving aggressively to open up the Amazon rainforest to commercial development, posing an existential threat to the tribes living there. By Ernesto Londoño and Letícia Casado Photo CreditDon Emmert/Agence France-Presse &mdash; Getty Images China Cracks Down on Fentanyl. But Is It Enough to End the U.S. Epidemic? After years of American pressure, China is taking steps to shut off the illicit supply of deadly synthetic opioids. But don’t expect an end to the overdoses. By Steven Lee Myers Photo CreditUlet Ifansasti/Getty Images With Boeing in Cross Hairs, Lion Air Gets a Pass on Poor Safety Record A focus on Boeing after two fatal crashes has given cover to an Indonesian air carrier with global ambitions — a company that will neither fully admit to, nor swiftly address, its safety issues. By Hannah Beech and Muktita Suhartono Photo Credit Why Amazon Fires Keep Raging 10 Years After a Deal to End Them Many of the thousands of fires burning in Brazil’s Amazon are set by ranchers. A deal inked 10 years ago was meant to stop the problem, but the ecological arson goes on as the Earth warms. By Clifford Krauss, David Yaffe-Bellany and Mariana Simões Photo CreditMeghan Dhaliwal for The New York Times After a Caribbean Hurricane, the Battle Is Where, or Even Whether, to Rebuild When Hurricane Irma crushed St. Martin two years ago, the French state vowed swift assistance. Aid has flowed in, but a fight has followed about recovery plans, exposing racial and class tension. By Kirk Semple Latest Search Search Clear this text input Fire at Construction Site Kills 38 in South Korea The blaze comes as President Moon Jae-in has struggled to make good on his pledge to put an end to the man-made disasters that have convulsed the country. By Choe Sang-Hun Coronavirus, Justin Amash, Irrfan Khan: Your Wednesday Briefing Here’s what you need to know. By Chris Stanford A Scramble for Virus Apps That Do No Harm Dozens of tracking apps for smartphones are being used or developed to help contain the coronavirus pandemic. But there are worries about privacy and hastily written software. By Jennifer Valentino-DeVries, Natasha Singer and Aaron Krolik Irrfan Khan, Bollywood Star and Crossover Hollywood Actor, Dies at 53 The actor was comfortable in mainstream and art-house roles. His films include “The Namesake,” “Life of Pi” and “Inferno.” By Shalini Venugopal Bhagat Stock Markets Edge Higher as Report on U.S. Economy Looms: Live Updates The latest on stock market and business news during the coronavirus outbreak. Coronavirus, Sweden, Joe Biden: Your Wednesday Briefing Here’s what you need to know. By Isabella Kwai Coronavirus Briefing: What Happened Today Whenever schools finally reopen in the United States, the classroom could be a very different place. By Patrick J. Lyons Packed With Migrant Workers, Dormitories Fuel Coronavirus in Singapore Cases of the virus in dormitories, which can house up to 20 people per room, accounted for 88 percent of the nation’s cases, as of Tuesday. By Weiyi Cai and K.K. Rebecca Lai China’s Economy, India’s Lockdown, Joe Biden: Your Wednesday Briefing Here’s what you need to know. By Melina Delkic Where There’s a Will in England, There’s a Way Prodded by the coronavirus, thousands are making or updating their estate arrangements, but an archaic law requiring two witnesses in person is forcing people to take drastic measures. By Benjamin Mueller Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions