http://www.nytimes.com/pages/national/index.html
U.S. News - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index U.S. News Today’s Paper AdvertisementContinue reading the main story U.S. News Highlights Photo CreditRuth Fremson/The New York Times Married to an Undocumented Immigrant? You May Not Get a Stimulus Check. Undocumented immigrants are ineligible for federal payments to help families during the coronavirus pandemic. So are their spouses, even if they are U.S. citizens. By Caitlin Dickerson Photo CreditYouVisit With Campuses Closed, College Tours Move Online Colleges are ghost towns, but officials are trying to reach prospective students with virtual visits and Zoom meetings. Can they replicate that face-to-face feeling? By Dionne Searcey Photo CreditJustin Sullivan/Getty Images Despite Trump’s Nudging, Schools Are Likely to Stay Shut for Months Most districts have no plans to end online lessons soon, and reopening will bring significant changes, educators say. By Shawn Hubler, Erica L. Green and Dana Goldstein Photo CreditRichard Fausset/The New York Times What We Know About the Shooting Death of Ahmaud Arbery Mr. Arbery, a 25-year-old black man, was chased by armed white residents of a South Georgia neighborhood. He was shot dead during a confrontation. By Richard Fausset AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Coronavirus (US)More in Coronavirus (US) » Photo CreditNYT On Politics: Another Split-Screen Endorsement An ex-nominee backs a presumptive one, and a third-party bid looms: This is your morning tip sheet. By Giovanni Russonello Photo CreditVictor J. Blue for The New York Times Coronavirus Live Updates: 100 Days and One Million Confirmed Infections in U.S. Officially, more than 53,000 have died, according to The Times’s count, but death rates suggest the true toll is much higher. President Trump signed an order to keep meat plants open. New York’s mayor helped break up a crowded funeral in Brooklyn. Photo CreditDavid Brandon Geeting Bridge Was Their Passion. Then People Started to Die. A bridge club was a social draw for scores of older Coloradans. Now, with four members dead from the virus, its future is unclear. By Jack Healy Photo CreditSaul Martinez for The New York Times ‘Will You Help Save My Brother?’: The Scramble to Find Covid-19 Plasma Donors A doctor stricken with Covid-19 was running out of options. His family mounted a search for a donor whose plasma might help. By Audra D. S. Burch and Amy Harmon Photo CreditJacquelyn Martin/Associated Press Peace Corps Volunteers Can Get Unemployment Benefits, Officials Say In previous years, returned volunteers were not eligible for unemployment benefits, but they will now be covered by the coronavirus relief plan. By Mariel Padilla Latest Search Search Clear this text input Online Auction to Aid Comic-Book Shops Raises Over $430,000 Comic-book creators contributed their work, and buyers made their bids on Twitter, to help employees and businesses upended by the coronavirus. By George Gene Gustines Coronavirus, Justin Amash, Irrfan Khan: Your Wednesday Briefing Here’s what you need to know. By Chris Stanford A Scramble for Virus Apps That Do No Harm Dozens of tracking apps for smartphones are being used or developed to help contain the coronavirus pandemic. But there are worries about privacy and hastily written software. By Jennifer Valentino-DeVries, Natasha Singer and Aaron Krolik U.S. Economy Slumped in First Quarter: Live Updates The latest on stock market and business news during the coronavirus outbreak. Europe Prepares for a Coronavirus Summer: Live Updates The virus was found in tiny droplets at two Chinese hospitals, the first real-world examples that airborne transmission may be possible. U.S. Coronavirus Death Toll Is Far Higher Than Reported, C.D.C. Data Suggests In seven hard-hit states, total deaths are nearly 50 percent higher than normal, according to new C.D.C. statistics, suggesting that the virus has killed far more people than the number in official counts. By Josh Katz, Denise Lu and Margot Sanger-Katz Pug in North Carolina Tests Positive for the Coronavirus, Researchers Say A team at Duke University detected the virus in the dog this month. By Christine Hauser and Jenny Gross Justin Amash Moves Toward a Third-Party Bid for President Mr. Amash, an independent congressman from Michigan who left the Republican Party last year, said he was exploring running as a Libertarian, adding new volatility to the race. By Jonathan Martin and Alexander Burns Mfume to Return to Congress, Succeeding Elijah Cummings He first held the seat from 1987 to 1996 until he left to serve as president of the N.A.A.C.P. and was replaced by Mr. Cummings, who died in October. By Emily Cochrane Coronavirus Briefing: What Happened Today Whenever schools finally reopen in the United States, the classroom could be a very different place. By Patrick J. Lyons Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions