http://www.nytimes.com/pages/nyregion/index.html
New York - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index New York Today’s Paper AdvertisementContinue reading the main story New York Highlights Photo CreditJonah Markowitz for The New York Times Mayor Breaks Up Crowd at Rabbi’s Funeral: Latest Updates Mayor Bill de Blasio called the gathering in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, “absolutely unacceptable,” but some leaders accused him of a double standard. Photo CreditCaitlin Ochs for The New York Times When N.Y. Needed Hospital Space, Film Location Scouts Pitched In Enterprising creative workers, like artists, photographers and students, are using their unique skills to help the city through the pandemic. By Jane Margolies Photo CreditGregg Vigliotti for The New York Times N.Y. Building Sites Reopen, Carefully, in Sign of Life Gearing Back Up More than 5,200 construction projects have reopened in New York City, offering a glimpse of new routines in postpandemic workplaces. By Matthew Haag Photo CreditGabriele Holtermann-Gorden/Pacific Press/LightRocket via Getty Images Does Andrew Yang Want to Be New York’s Post-Coronavirus Mayor? The ex-presidential candidate has boosted his profile, giving money to Bronx residents and starting a podcast and an antidiscrimination campaign. By Matt Stevens Photo CreditManuel Fernandez They’re Still Working at the Airports, and They’re Scared At least 17 workers at New York’s airports have died from the coronavirus, and dozens more have been infected. By Patrick McGeehan Photo CreditJohnny Milano for The New York Times ‘Governors Don’t Do Global Pandemics’: Cuomo Faults Others Over Virus The governor accused various world and federal health groups, as well as the news media, of not sufficiently warning the world of the coronavirus outbreak. By Jesse McKinley New York Today Photo CreditAndrew Seng for The New York Times Coronavirus in N.Y.C.: Latest Updates The governor waded into the city-versus-state dispute over the issue of homeless people sleeping on trains. Photo CreditDaniel Levin ‘It Was Just Too Much’: How Remote Learning Is Breaking Parents For the adults in the house, trying to do their own jobs while helping children with class work has become one of the most trying aspects of the pandemic. By Elizabeth A. Harris Photo CreditDemetrius Freeman for The New York Times New York Board of Elections Cancels Democratic Presidential Primary The State Board of Elections scrapped the state’s June 23 Democratic nominating contest, citing the risk of spreading coronavirus, in a move opposed by supporters of Bernie Sanders. By Stephanie Saul and Nick Corasaniti AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Latest Search Search Clear this text input Coronavirus Live Updates: 100 Days and One Million Confirmed Infections in U.S. Officially, more than 53,000 have died, according to The Times’s count, but death rates suggest the true toll is much higher. President Trump signed an order to keep meat plants open. New York’s mayor helped break up a crowded funeral in Brooklyn. Europe Prepares for a Coronavirus Summer: Live Updates The virus was found in tiny droplets at two Chinese hospitals, the first real-world examples that airborne transmission may be possible. De Blasio Breaks Up Rabbi’s Funeral and Lashes Out Over Virus Distancing After overseeing the dispersal of hundreds of Hasidic mourners in Brooklyn, Mayor Bill de Blasio called the gathering “absolutely unacceptable.” By Liam Stack and Michael Gold Those We’ve Lost Norman Gulamerian, Artist With a Grand Passion, Dies at 92 He fell in love with a young widow with five children, and after years of courtship by mail, he persuaded her to marry him. He died of the coronavirus. By Katharine Q. Seelye Tina Girouard, Experimental Artist in 1970s SoHo, Dies at 73 She was a founder of Food, an influential artist-run kitchen in Manhattan, and a member of the alternative art space 112 Greene Street. By Randy Kennedy Cuomo Calls Subway Cars Filled With Homeless People ‘Disgusting’ The governor, referring to a newspaper image of homeless people on the subway, said it was “disgusting” and “disrespectful” to essential workers. New York Today Coronavirus in N.Y.C.: Latest Updates State officials canceled the Democratic presidential primary in the face of the coronavirus pandemic, angering Bernie Sanders supporters. Spiking Death Rates Suggest Pandemic Toll Is Undercounted A mall operator plans to reopen shopping centers, government officials debate whether some pro sports could resume, and schools balk at spring reopenings. Hundreds of Miles From Home, Nurses Fight Coronavirus on New York’s Front Lines “Every day you go in and you’re like, ‘Can I do this for one more day?’’’ a nurse from North Carolina said. By Jenny Gross Study Finds Coronavirus in Tiny Airborne Droplets in Wuhan Even when governments don’t force people to stay home, fear does. Spain, France and Greece have announced plans to restart daily life, with caveats. Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Follow Us @NYTMetrotwitter page for @NYTMetro AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions