http://www.nytimes.com/pages/health/index.html
Health - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Health Today’s Paper AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Health Health Policy Global Health The New Old Age Science Well Coronavirus Outbreak Highlights Photo CreditSaul Martinez for The New York Times ‘Will You Help Save My Brother?’: The Scramble to Find Covid-19 Plasma Donors A doctor stricken with Covid-19 was running out of options. His family mounted a search for a donor whose plasma might help. By Audra D. S. Burch and Amy Harmon Photo CreditMichelle Mishina-Kunz for The New York Times Abortion by Telemedicine: A Growing Option as Access to Clinics Wanes The coronavirus has created a surge in demand for telemedicine of all types — including for a quietly expanding program for terminating pregnancies. By Pam Belluck Photo CreditVictor J. Blue for The New York Times Coronavirus Live Updates: 100 Days and One Million Confirmed Infections in U.S. Officially, more than 53,000 have died, according to The Times’s count, but death rates suggest the true toll is much higher. President Trump signed an order to keep meat plants open. New York’s mayor helped break up a crowded funeral in Brooklyn. Photo CreditAgence France-Presse — Getty Images Airborne Coronavirus Detected in Wuhan Hospitals While the RNA of the virus was found in tiny droplets in China, scientists don’t know if it was capable of transmitting the virus. By Kenneth Chang Photo CreditJuan Arredondo for The New York Times Let the Sunshine In Sunlight is not a cure for coronavirus, but it does have other benefits for mind and body. By Richard Schiffman Photo CreditJake Michaels for The New York Times Can Estrogen and Other Sex Hormones Help Men Survive Covid-19? Men are more likely than women to die of the coronavirus, so scientists are treating them with something women have more of: female sex hormones. By Roni Caryn Rabin Photo CreditJohn Moore/Getty Images C.D.C. Adds New Symptoms to Its List of Possible Covid-19 Signs Chills, muscle pain, sore throat and headache are among the ailments now considered potential indicators of the disease. By Pam Belluck Photo CreditKayana Szymczak for The New York Times 32 Days on a Ventilator: One Covid Patient’s Fight to Breathe Again Jim Bello, 49 and healthy, fell gravely ill, highlighting agonizing mysteries of the coronavirus. Doctors’ relentless effort to save him was a roller-coaster of devastating and triumphant twists. By Pam Belluck Photo CreditLucas Jackson/Reuters Can Antibody Tests Help End the Coronavirus Pandemic? The tests are not reliable enough to guide policy on lockdowns and reopenings, experts said. But they can help model the spread of the virus. By Apoorva Mandavilli AdvertisementContinue reading the main story The Coronavirus OutbreakMore in The Coronavirus Outbreak » Photo CreditSaul Martinez for The New York Times ‘Will You Help Save My Brother?’: The Scramble to Find Covid-19 Plasma Donors A doctor stricken with Covid-19 was running out of options. His family mounted a search for a donor whose plasma might help. By Audra D. S. Burch and Amy Harmon Photo CreditJonah Markowitz for The New York Times Mayor Breaks Up Crowd at Rabbi’s Funeral: Latest Updates Mayor Bill de Blasio called the gathering in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, “absolutely unacceptable,” but some leaders accused him of a double standard. Photo CreditJustin Sullivan/Getty Images Despite Trump’s Nudging, Schools Are Likely to Stay Shut for Months Most districts have no plans to end online lessons soon, and reopening will bring significant changes, educators say. By Shawn Hubler, Erica L. Green and Dana Goldstein Photo CreditGabriela Bhaskar for The New York Times Trump Vows More Coronavirus Testing, but Less Than What May Be Needed The president’s announcement came after weeks of him insisting that states had plenty of tests. By Sheryl Gay Stolberg Photo CreditJohn Moore/Getty Images C.D.C. Adds New Symptoms to Its List of Possible Covid-19 Signs Chills, muscle pain, sore throat and headache are among the ailments now considered potential indicators of the disease. By Pam Belluck Latest Search Search Clear this text input Phys Ed The 4-Second Workout Intense bursts of exercise throughout the day may have surprising metabolic benefits. By Gretchen Reynolds Voices Aching for My Grandchildren in Isolation With my compromised immunity, blowing kisses through the window is an act of love and hope. By Wendy S. Harpham, M.D. Europe Prepares for a Coronavirus Summer: Live Updates The virus was found in tiny droplets at two Chinese hospitals, the first real-world examples that airborne transmission may be possible. Filtered Coffee May Be Especially Good for Heart Health Coffee put through a paper filter had enhanced benefits compared to methods like French press or espresso. By Nicholas Bakalar Mel Baggs, Blogger on Autism and Disability, Dies at 39 Candid blog posts and a widely viewed short film sought to expand the very definition of what it means to be human. By Neil Genzlinger Sexting, Consent and the ‘Quaranteen’ Guidance for parents on talking to teens about consent while on lockdown. Hint: Use French fries as an example. By Shafia Zaloom Spiking Death Rates Suggest Pandemic Toll Is Undercounted A mall operator plans to reopen shopping centers, government officials debate whether some pro sports could resume, and schools balk at spring reopenings. Coronavirus Diplomacy: How China’s Red Cross Serves the Communist Party The Red Cross in China seems like any other humanitarian group. But there is one crucial difference: it is funded and directed by the Chinese Communist Party. By Javier C. Hernández and Sui-Lee Wee 阅读简体中文版閱讀繁體中文版 Endless Summer Puts Homebound Kids at Risk for Weight Gain With schools shuttered, the inactivity and snacking typical of summer breaks puts more students at risk of obesity and health ills. By Anahad O’Connor Voices A Mother, a Pandemic and Scorched Rice “You have an American amount of rice,” my mother told me as news of the coronavirus intensified. “Go get the biggest bag you can find.” By Lynn Jones Johnston Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Follow Us @nythealthtwitter page for @nythealth NYTimesSciencefacebook page for NYTimesScience WellNYTfacebook page for WellNYT @nytimeswelltwitter page for @nytimeswell AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions