http://www.nytimes.com/pages/automobiles/index.html
Automobiles - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Automobiles Today’s Paper AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Automobiles Highlights Photo CreditElliott Verdier for The New York Times After Closing for the Virus, Is Michelin Moving Too Quickly? The tire maker’s C.E.O. says the company must be ready for the end of quarantine, but French unions are wary. By Liz Alderman Photo CreditDavid J. Phillip/Associated Press Driving and Travel Restrictions Across the United States Across the 48 contiguous states, authorities have put in differing rules for travel. Here is a comprehensive guide to the current rules. By Karen Schwartz Photo CreditBrittainy Newman/The New York Times Wheels ‘Charger Desert’ in Big Cities Keeps Electric Cars From Mainstream For city dwellers who would love an E.V., the biggest hurdle might be keeping it juiced up without a garage or other convenient charging stations. By Lawrence Ulrich Photo CreditBMW Wheels The Soundtrack to an Electric Car The film composer Hans Zimmer is creating a sonic signature for BMW’s forthcoming electric i4 sedan. By Stephen Williams Wheels Photo CreditTodd Midler for The New York Times Their Car Beat Hitler’s Racers, but Who Owns It Now? A French automaker, an American heiress and a French-Jewish racer formed a team that beat Germany’s far more powerful cars in a 1938 Grand Prix. Its history since then traces a more complex path. By Jim Motavalli Wheels Photo CreditCaitlin O&rsquo;Hara for The New York Times German Accent, Italian Flair: How Audi Taught Lamborghini Quality Eye-popping prices and horsepower were matched with reliability after Audi stepped in to buy the maker of exotic sports cars. A ride in the Huracán erases all doubts. By Jim Resnick Your Money Photo CreditJustin Sullivan/Getty Images Some Insurers Offer a Break for Drivers Stuck at Home Allstate and American Family Insurance are pushing savings to customers automatically. Many others have not. We asked. By Ron Lieber Photo CreditKholood Eid for The New York Times Auto Sales Plummet in First Quarter as Coronavirus Keeps Buyers Away After a strong first two months of the year, sales tumbled in March as Americans stayed home. By Neal E. Boudette Photo CreditAJ Mast/General Motors Inside G.M.’s Race to Build Ventilators, Before Trump’s Attack The automaker and its partner, Ventec, had spent more than a week figuring out how to make thousands of the lifesaving devices when the White House said G.M. was “wasting time.” By Neal E. Boudette and Andrew Jacobs Photo CreditJim Young/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images U.S. to Announce Rollback of Auto Pollution Rules, a Key Effort to Fight Climate Change The Trump administration has finalized new fuel efficiency standards, lowering expectations from 54 miles per gallon by 2025 to 40 miles a gallon by 2030. By Coral Davenport Wheels Photo CreditBenjamin Rasmussen for The New York Times A Family Heirloom, Restored From Hood to Taillights A Ford Model A that has been part of one family’s lives across five generations got a 30-year restoration. By Jennifer E. Mabry Wheels Photo CreditAlec Lesser for The New York Times Big Rigs Begin to Trade Diesel for Electric Motors Tractor-trailer fleets will take time to electrify, and start-ups and established truck makers are racing to get their models on the road. By Susan Carpenter Photo CreditJeff Kowalsky/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images Automakers to Close Factories in North America G.M., Ford Motor and Fiat Chrysler were under pressure from the autoworkers union to shut down plants in response to the coronavirus outbreak. By Neal E. Boudette Photo CreditScott Barbour/EPA, via Shutterstock Formula One Opener Canceled as Coronavirus Casts Shadow Over Season The Australian Grand Prix was shut down after a McLaren worker tested positive. The next three races have been postponed. By Ian Parkes AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Latest Search Search Clear this text input Pandemic’s Costs Stagger the Nursing Home Industry Even before the coronavirus swept through care facilities, many were struggling with thin profit margins. Now they could be wiped out. By Matthew Goldstein, Robert Gebeloff and Jessica Silver-Greenberg How Bad Will the Economy Get? Companies Will Provide Clues The quarterly parade of corporate earnings and management comments could reveal how much damage the pandemic will do and how long the pain will last. By Peter Eavis and Matt Phillips For Drive-In Theaters, an Unexpected Revival A retro tradition get a (temporary) boost from social-distancing edicts. By Alyson Krueger After Mounting Criticism, Tesla Will Shut Down California Factory The electric carmaker had continued making cars in recent days in apparent defiance of a local county order limiting operations of nonessential businesses. By Niraj Chokshi Pandemic Erodes Gig Economy Work Gig companies promoted their flexible hours as an economic lifeline for workers. In the coronavirus outbreak, it has been anything but. By Kate Conger, Adam Satariano and Mike Isaac U.A.W. Says Automakers Will Address Coronavirus Concerns at Car Plants The union had said Ford, General Motors and Fiat Chrysler should halt production for two weeks to ensure worker safety. By Neal E. Boudette Wheels Cadillac Puts Its Engines Through the Paces on the Racetrack It doesn’t sell a sports car, but its technology is finding success where luxury brands like Benz and BMW have thrived. By Paul Stenquist European Carmakers Worry Coronavirus Outbreak May Hurt Sales Vehicle manufacturers say they haven’t yet had to close factories in Europe. But a decline in global sales is likely to be worse than expected. By Jack Ewing Taking the Golf Out of Golf Communities Around the country, planned developments are adapting and reinventing in order to appeal to a wider range of buyers. By Steven Kurutz Encounters J.B. Smoove of ‘Curb Your Enthusiasm’ Shops the Diamond District Larry David’s motor-mouthed television roommate talks apocalypse, past lives and pocket watches. By Alex Williams Show More AdvertisementContinue reading the main story AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions