https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joint_session_of_the_United_States_Congress
Joint session of the United States Congress - Wikipedia
Joint session of the United States Congress From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Gathering of members of both chambers of the legislature of the US federal government This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Joint session of the United States Congress" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (November 2008) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Joint session of the United States Congress Seal of the United States Congress History Founded March 4, 1789 (231 years ago) (1789-03-04) Leadership Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi (D) since January 3, 2019 President of the Senate Mike Pence (R) since January 20, 2017 Structure Seats 535 voting members 100 senators 435 representatives 6 non-voting members Senate political groups Republican (53) Democratic (45) Independent (2)[a] House of Representatives political groups Democratic (235) Republican (197) Libertarian (1) Vacant (2) Meeting place House of Representatives Chamber United States Capitol Washington, D.C. A joint session of the United States Congress is a gathering of members of the two chambers of the bicameral legislature of the federal government of the United States: the Senate and the House of Representatives. Joint sessions can be held on any special occasion, but are required to be held when the president delivers a State of the Union address, when they gather to count and certify the votes of the Electoral College following a presidential election, or when they convene on the occasion of a presidential inauguration. A joint session is a ceremonial or formal occasion and does not perform any legislative function; and no resolution is proposed or vote taken. Joint sessions and meetings are usually held in the Chamber of the House of Representatives, and are traditionally presided over by the speaker of the House. However, the Constitution requires the vice president (as president of the Senate) to preside over the counting of electoral votes. Contents 1 Counting electoral votes 2 State of the Union 3 Subjects of joint sessions and meetings 3.1 Foreign dignitaries 3.2 Presidential addresses 3.3 Military leaders 3.4 Astronauts 3.5 Memorials 3.6 Anniversaries 4 Historic joint sessions 5 See also 6 Notes 7 References 8 External links Counting electoral votes[edit] The Twelfth Amendment mandates that the Congress assemble in joint session to count the electoral votes and declare the winners of the election.[1] The session is ordinarily required to take place on January 6 in the calendar year immediately following the meetings of the presidential electors.[2] The Twentieth Amendment now provides that the newly elected Congress declares the winner of the election. Until 1936, the outgoing Congress counted the electoral votes. The joint session to count electoral votes is held at 1:00 p.m. Eastern time on January 6 in the Chamber of the House of Representatives.[2] The sitting vice president is expected to preside, but in several cases the president pro tempore of the Senate has chaired the proceedings instead. The vice president and the speaker of the House sit at the podium, with the vice president in the seat of the speaker of the House. Senate pages bring in the two mahogany boxes containing each state's certified vote and place them on tables in front of the senators and representatives. Each house appoints two tellers to count the vote (normally one member of each political party). Relevant portions of the Certificate of Vote are read for each state, in alphabetical order. Members of Congress can object to any state's vote count, provided that the objection is supported by at least one member of each house of Congress. A successful objection will be followed by debate; however, objections to the electoral vote count are rarely raised, although it did occur during the vote count in 2001 after the close 2000 presidential election between George W. Bush, then governor of Texas, and Al Gore, then vice president of the United States. Vice President Gore, who as vice president was required to preside over his own Electoral College defeat (by five electoral votes), denied the objections, all of which were raised only by several House members and would have favored his candidacy, after no senators would agree to jointly object. If there are no objections or all objections are overruled, the presiding officer declares the result of the vote and states who is elected president and vice president. The senators then depart from the House Chamber. State of the Union[edit] At some time during the first two months of each session, the president customarily delivers the State of the Union address, a speech in which an assessment is made of the state of the country, and the president's legislative agenda is outlined. The speech is modeled on the Speech from the Throne, given by the British monarch. There is a major difference, in that the president is the principal author of his own State of the Union address, while the Speech from the Throne is customarily written by the prime minister. The Constitution of the United States requires that the president "shall from time to time give to the Congress Information of the State of the Union," but does not specify whether the information should be given in a speech or a written report. The first two presidents, George Washington and John Adams, delivered the speech in person before both houses of Congress, but that practice was discontinued by Thomas Jefferson, who considered it too monarchical and sent written reports instead. Written reports were standard until 1913, when Woodrow Wilson reestablished the practice of personally attending to deliver the speech. Since then, on a number of occasions presidents have presented a written report, usually for medical reasons.[3] Subjects of joint sessions and meetings[edit] In addition to State of the Union addresses, inaugurals and counting of electoral votes, joint sessions or meetings usually fall into one of several topics. Foreign dignitaries[edit] Winston Churchill addresses Congress in 1943. Sitting behind him Vice President Wallace and Speaker Rayburn. Indonesian President Sukarno addresses Congress in 1956. Sitting behind him Vice President Nixon and Speaker Rayburn. Pope Francis addresses Congress in 2015. Behind him are Vice President Biden and Speaker Boehner. Joint meetings have been held more than a hundred times to enable foreign heads of state or heads of government to address Congress. Leaders of 48 countries have addressed Congress at a joint meeting: France leads the list with nine joint meeting addresses by heads of state or dignitaries. Other leading countries are: Israel (8), United Kingdom (8), Mexico (7), Italy (6), Ireland (6), South Korea (6), Germany, including West Germany and unified Germany (5), India (5), Canada (3), Australia (3), Argentina (3), and the Philippines (3). Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu and Prime Minister of the United Kingdom Winston Churchill have each made three joint addresses to Congress, more than any other foreign dignitaries (Netanyahu: 1996,[4] 2011,[5] 2015;[6] Churchill: 1941, 1943, 1952). Prime Minister of Israel Yitzhak Rabin addressed joint meetings of Congress on two occasions (1976 and 1994) as did Nelson Mandela of South Africa (1990 and 1994).[7] The first foreign dignitary to address a joint session of Congress was Ambassador André de La Boulaye of France who addressed a joint session on May 20, 1934 to memorialize the centennial anniversary of the death of Marquis de Lafayette.[8] The first non-dignitary to address a joint meeting of Congress was Polish Solidarity leader Lech Wałęsa in 1989. Nelson Mandela, then deputy president of the African National Congress addressed a joint meeting in 1990.[9] Twice have joint meetings been attended by dignitaries from two countries: On September 18, 1978, when Congress was addressed by Egyptian President Anwar Sadat and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin, and on July 26, 1994, when Congress was addressed by King Hussein of Jordan and Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin. John Howard, prime minister of Australia, had originally been scheduled to address Congress on September 12, 2001, but his address was postponed due to the September 11 terrorist attacks the previous day. Howard's address was rescheduled for June 12, 2002 where he spoke about the attacks he had witnessed 9 months earlier. Howard was acknowledged with a standing ovation and describes the occasion as a "moving moment."[10] The most recent addresses by foreign dignitaries were given by French President Emmanuel Macron on April 25, 2018, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 8, 2016, and Pope Francis on September 24, 2015. The Pope did not address the joint session as a religious dignitary but as a head of state.[11] All foreign heads of state and heads of government are presented officially to Congress in the same manner as the president during the State of the Union Address and are introduced by the speaker by their diplomatic style of address, followed by their name and respective office. Presidential addresses[edit] In addition to a State of the Union address, presidents address Congress on specific subjects. The first such speech was delivered by John Adams on the subject of U.S. relations with France. The most popular subjects for such addresses are economic, military and foreign policy issues. In addition to bringing back the tradition of delivering a State of Union address, Woodrow Wilson was the first president since John Adams to address Congress on specific topics. He delivered 17 such speeches, more than any other president. Military leaders[edit] Closing words of MacArthur's final address to a joint meeting of Congress Joint meetings are sometimes called to hear addresses by generals, admirals, or other military leaders. Perhaps the most notable example is Douglas MacArthur's farewell address to Congress. In concluding the speech he recalled an old army song which contained the line "old soldiers never die; they just fade away". He then said, "And like the old soldier of that ballad, I now close my military career and just fade away, an old soldier who tried to do his duty as God gave him the light to see that duty. Good-bye". Astronauts[edit] Six times in the first years of the Space Age, Congress jointly met to be addressed by astronauts after their trips in space. Memorials[edit] Nine times, Congress has jointly met to hold a memorial service for a deceased president or former president. Congress has also met to memorialize Vice President James Sherman and the Marquis de Lafayette. Anniversaries[edit] Congress sometimes meets to mark the anniversary of a historical event or of a presidential birthday. The first such occasion was the centennial of George Washington's first inauguration in 1789. Congress has met to mark the centennial of the birth of each president since Franklin Delano Roosevelt, with the exception of Lyndon Johnson. Historic joint sessions[edit] FDR's Pearl Harbor Speech. Behind him are Vice President Wallace and Speaker Rayburn (audio only) The first occurrence of a joint session was on April 6, 1789 at Federal Hall in New York City during the 1st Congress, for the counting of electoral votes. The first formally recorded joint meeting occurred on December 18, 1874 during the 43rd Congress in Washington, D.C., as a reception of King Kalākaua of the Kingdom of Hawaii who was on a state visit to the United States. Because of a severe cold and hoarseness, the king could not deliver his speech, which was read by former Representative Elisha Hunt Allen, then serving as chancellor and chief justice of the Hawaiian Islands. On December 8, 1941, the day after the attack on Pearl Harbor, President Franklin D. Roosevelt delivered the "Infamy Speech" to a joint session of Congress. Less than an hour later, Congress issued a formal declaration of war against Japan and officially brought the U.S. into World War II. This address is regarded as one of the most famous American political speeches of the 20th century.[12] On March 15, 1965, President Lyndon Johnson, after witnessing marchers beaten during the "Bloody Sunday" incident during the first Selma to Montgomery march, called on Congress to write and pass a Voting Rights Act. During this speech Johnson used the words "We Shall Overcome". On September 20, 2001, President George W. Bush gave a speech before a joint session of Congress in response to the September 11 attacks.[13][14] See also[edit] List of joint sessions of the United States Congress List of people who have addressed both Houses of the United Kingdom Parliament Joint address (Canada)—similar event held in the Parliament of Canada Joint session United States Congress Notes[edit] ^ The independent senators (Angus King and Bernie Sanders) formally caucus with the Democratic Party. References[edit] ^ "The President of the Senate shall, in the presence of the Senate and House of Representatives, open all the certificates and the votes shall then be counted." Constitution of the United States: Amendments 11-27, National Archives and Records Administration ^ a b 3 U.S.C. § 15, Counting electoral votes in Congress ^ "State of the Union Addresses of the Presidents of the United States". Presidency.ucsb.edu. Retrieved 2012-09-26. ^ "Video recording of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's July 10, 1996 address to Congress (C-SPAN.org)". ^ "Video recording of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's May 24, 2011 address to Congress (C-SPAN.org)". "Office of the Clerk, US House of Representatives)". ^ "Video recording of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's March 3, 2015 address to Congress (C-SPAN.org)". "Office of the Clerk, US House of Representatives". [permanent dead link] ^ "Office of the Clerk, US House of Representatives". Artandhistory.house.gov. Archived from the original on 2011-07-21. Retrieved 2012-09-26. ^ "Office of Art and Archives of the U.S. House of Representatives – Joint Meeting & Joint Session Addresses Before Congress by Foreign Leaders & Dignitaries". Artandhistory.house.gov. Retrieved 2015-09-25. ^ "Office of the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives Art & History – Foreign Leaders & Dignitaries". Artandhistory.house.gov. Archived from the original on 2011-07-21. Retrieved 2012-09-26. ^ ABC Television (1 Dec 2010). "The Howard Years, Episode 3: Commander-in-Chief". Retrieved 24 Oct 2010. ^ "Pope Francis to Address a Joint Meeting of Congress". Speaker.gov. 2015-02-05. Retrieved 2017-02-28. ^ "FDR's "Day of Infamy" Speech: Crafting a Call to Arms", Prologue magazine, US National Archives, Winter 2001, Vol. 33, No. 4. ^ "20 September 2001; Presidential address transcript". Presentialrhetoric.com. Retrieved 2012-09-26. ^ "20 September 2001; Presidential address video". C-spanvideo.org. Retrieved 2012-09-26. External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Joint sessions of the United States Congress. House Clerk Video of Joint Meetings and Joint Sessions dating to January 6, 2009 "Joint Meetings, Sessions, Inaugurations". Congressional History. Office of the Clerk, House of Representatives, US Capitol. Archived from the original on September 11, 2011. Retrieved January 23, 2007. v t e United States Congress House of Representatives Senate (115th←116th→117th) Lists of United States Congress Members and leaders Membership Members By length of service By shortness of service Freshmen Youngest members Non-voting members Senate Members Seniority Dean Former Living Longest living Expelled or censured Classes Born outside the U.S. Resigned Appointed Switched parties House Members Seniority Dean Former Living Oldest living Expelled, censured, and reprimanded Served a single term Switched parties Leaders Senate President List President pro tempore List Leaders Democratic Caucus Chair Secretary Policy Committee Chair Republican Conference Chair Vice-Chair Policy Committee Chair House Speaker List Leaders Bipartisan Legal Advisory Group Democratic Caucus Republican Conference Districts List Apportionment Gerrymandering Groups Congressional caucus African Americans in the House Congressional Black Caucus African Americans in the Senate Arab and Middle Eastern members Asian Pacific American members Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus Hispanic and Latino members Hispanic Caucus Hispanic Conference Jewish members LGBT members LGBT Equality Caucus Native American members Women Senate House Issues Caucus Related By length of service historically Current members by wealth From multiple states Died in office Killed or wounded in office Powers, privileges, procedure, committees, history, and media Powers Article I Copyright Commerce (Dormant) Contempt of Congress Declaration of war Impeachment Naturalization "Necessary and Proper" Power of enforcement Taxing/spending Privileges Salaries Franking Immunity Procedure Act of Congress List Appropriation bill Bill Blue slip Budget resolution Censure Closed sessions House Senate Cloture Concurrent resolution Continuing resolution Dear Colleague letter Discharge petition Enrolled bill Expulsion Joint resolution Joint session List Lame-duck session Majority of the majority (Hastert Rule) Multiple referral House Procedures Quorum call Reconciliation Rider Saxbe fix Sponsorship Suspension of the rules Unanimous consent Veto Line-item veto Pocket veto Senate-specific Advice and consent Classes Executive communication Executive session Filibuster Jefferson's Manual Senate Journal Morning business Nuclear option Presiding Officer Recess appointment Reconciliation Riddick's Senate Procedure Senate hold Senatorial courtesy Seniority Standing Rules Tie-breaking votes Traditions Treaty Clause Committees Chairman and ranking member Of the Whole Conference Discharge petition Hearings Markup Oversight List (Joint) List (House) List (Senate) Select and special Standing Subcommittees Items Gavels Mace of the House Seal of the Senate History House history Memoirs Speaker elections Senate history Election disputes Memoirs Continental Congress Federal Hall (1789-1790) Congress Hall (1790-1800) Old Brick Capitol (1815-1819) Biographical Directory Divided government Party divisions Media C-SPAN Congressional Quarterly The Hill Politico Roll Call Capitol Complex (Capitol Hill) Legislative offices Congressional staff Gov. Accountability Office (GAO) Comptroller General Architect of the Capitol Cap. Police Board Cap. Guide Service Cap. Guide Board Congr. Budget Office (CBO) Compliance Library of Congress Gov. Publishing Office (GPO) Technology Assessment Offices Senate Curator Historical Library House Congr. Ethics Emergency Planning, Preparedness, and Operations Interparliamentary Affairs Law Revision Counsel Library Employees Senate Secretary Chaplain Curator Historian Librarian Pages Parliamentarian Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper House Chaplain Chief Administrative Officer Clerk Doorkeeper Floor Operations Floor Services Chief Historian Pages Board Parliamentarian Postmaster Reading Clerk Sergeant at Arms Library of Congress Congressional Research Service Reports Copyright Office Register of Copyrights Law Library Poet Laureate THOMAS Adams Building Jefferson Building Madison Building Gov. Publishing Office Public Printer Congressional Pictorial Directory Congressional Record Official Congressional Directory U.S. Gov. Manual Serial Set Statutes at Large United States Code Capitol Building Brumidi Corridors Congressional Prayer Room Crypt Dome Statue of Freedom Rotunda Hall of Columns Statuary Hall Visitor Center The Apotheosis of Washington Statue of Freedom Declaration of Independence painting Scene at the Signing of the Constitution of the United States Apotheosis of Democracy First Reading of the Emancipation Proclamation of President Lincoln Surrender of General Burgoyne Surrender of Lord Cornwallis Revolutionary War Door Columbus Doors Washington at Princeton Westward the Course of Empire Takes Its Way VP's Room VP Bust Collection Office buildings Senate Dirksen Hart Mountains and Clouds Russell House Building Commission Cannon Ford Longworth O'Neill Rayburn Other facilities Botanic Garden Health and Fitness Facility House Recording Studio Senate chamber Old Senate Chamber Old Supreme Court Chamber Power Plant Webster Page Residence Subway Related Capitol Hill Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Joint_session_of_the_United_States_Congress&oldid=953814856" Categories: Joint sessions of the United States Congress Legislative branch of the United States government Hidden categories: All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from February 2020 Articles with permanently dead external links Articles with short description Articles needing additional references from November 2008 All articles needing additional references Commons category link is locally defined Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Français 日本語 Tiếng Việt 吴语 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 29 April 2020, at 05:22 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view