http://www.nytimes.com/educationleftnav
The New York Times Digital Subscription at Academic Rate
We use cookies and similar technologies to recognize your repeat visits and preferences, as well as to measure the effectiveness of campaigns and analyze traffic. To learn more about cookies, including how to disable them, view our Cookie Policy. By clicking “I accept” or “X” on this banner or using our site, you consent to the use of cookies unless you have disabled them. I ACCEPT Tell us about yourself. Please be aware that academic rates are for students and educators only. Tell us about yourself. Please be aware that academic rates are for students and educators only. I’M A STUDENT I’M AN EDUCATOR Neither Why The Times? What You Get Pricing More Options Academic Rates Home Delivery Group Subscriptions Cooking Crossword Gift Log in Subscribe to The New York Times. Subscribe to The New York Times. You may cancel anytime. You may cancel anytime. READER FAVORITE READER FAVORITE BASIC SUBSCRIPTION Unlimited articles on any device. GET BASIC Unlimited articles Enjoy unlimited articles on NYTimes.com and in the NYTimes app. Our complete archives Access anything from 1851 to the present day in The New York Times Archives. Subscriber exclusives Access exclusive features and newsletters, along with previews of new media releases. ALL ACCESS SUBSCRIPTION Get unlimited articles, NYT Cooking and the Crossword on any device. ALL ACCESS + PRINT SUBSCRIPTION Get The New York Times paper delivered plus the full digital experience. Other Options Other Options A Special Offer for K–12 and Higher Education Give your school the advantage of full access to The Times, whether it’s for select students and faculty, or for everyone. Group Subscriptions Gift Subscriptions Give the gift of The Times at the Academic Rate and save over 50%. Learn More NYT Crossword Play the Crossword and mini puzzles on any device. Daily puzzles edited by Will Shortz, plus 20 years of great puzzles from our archives. Get NYT Crossword NYT Cooking Unlimited access to the entire NYT Cooking recipe database, with tools to save and organize your favorites in your personal Recipe Box. Get NYT Cooking Not ready to subscribe? Tell us why Frequently Asked Questions What is a digital subscription? What do I get when I subscribe? An unlimited New York Times digital subscription provides ongoing access to NYTimes.com from any computer or device, as well as access to apps on portable devices. When you subscribe, you’ll get access to articles and blog posts, as well as video, slide shows and other multimedia features. At the Academic Rate, do I have access to the same features and benefits of a regular rate subscription? Yes, with the exception that Academic Rate subscribers to our All Access package are not eligible to receive bonus subscriptions to give to friends or family members. How do I qualify for the Academic Rate? You must be a current university student or educator and have a valid school email address. Do you offer subscriptions to organizations? Certainly. We offer special rates to organizations aiming to provide group access to The Times. Learn more at the group subscriptions homepage. Do you have resources for educators interested in using The New York Times in their courses or outside the classroom? Yes. Please visit The New York Times in Education and The New York Times in Leadership for resources at the college and university level. Resources specifically for K–12 classrooms may be found by visiting The New York Times Learning Network. What if I don’t qualify for the Academic Rate? You can order at our regular low rate here. Can I give a gift subscription at the discounted Academic Rate to a student? Yes. To give a student unlimited access to NYTimes.com and the NYT app for 50% off, click here. Does registering on NYTimes.com with my school email address automatically give me the Academic Rate for my digital subscription? No. Registering will only allow a visitor to get 4 free articles each calendar month on NYTimes.com. You still have to place a new order for a digital subscription through this page or contact Customer Care to adjust the rate on your existing subscription, in order to enjoy unrestricted access to all of the content at the discounted rate. What if I want to change the email address on my NYTimes.com account after my digital subscription at the Academic Rate begins? To keep the Education Rate, you must retain a valid school email address on your NYTimes.com account. If you change it, your subscription at the Education Rate is subject to cancellation. What is The School of The New York Times? The School of The New York Times offers courses, events and exclusive content for pre-collegiate and professional audiences, all reflecting the scope and relevance of The New York Times. Courses are taught by Times journalists and other experts, available on weekends and summer sessions for students, online for professionals. Click here to learn more. Do you offer a print subscription at the Academic Rate? Yes. Save with our special rate for U.S. educators and students, plus free, unlimited access to NYTimes.com and NYTimes apps. Go to Home Delivery. What is the cancellation and refund policy? You can cancel your subscription at any time. When you cancel, we will stop charging your account the following billing cycle. Each billing cycle is four weeks, so your unlimited access will continue for the remainder of the current four-week period. View the full cancellation and refund policy. What if I don’t want to subscribe — can I still read NYTimes.com for free? Visitors can enjoy 4 free articles (including blog posts, slide shows and other multimedia features) each calendar month on NYTimes.com, as well as unrestricted access to browse the home page, section fronts, blog fronts and classifieds. Your free, limited access resets every month: at the beginning of each calendar month, you’ll once again be able to view 4 free articles for that month. The NYT app is free to download and install. After downloading the app, you can read 4 articles each month for free. At the beginning of each calendar month, another 4 articles will be available for free. For nonsubscribers, articles from the New York Times archives from 1923 through 1980 are $3.95 each. Views of archived articles outside that date range are free but still count toward the 4-article monthly limit. VIEW ALL FAQ Refunds & Cancellations Copyright ©2020 Do not sell my personal information About The New York Times Company Privacy Policy Terms of Sale Help Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us Feedback Ways to Subscribe Digital + Home Delivery Education Rates Group Subscriptions NYT Crossword Gift Subscriptions plus-icon check