http://www.nytimes.com/search
The New York Times - Search
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Today’s Paper Showing 10 out of 20,491 results for: Search Use up and down arrows to review search suggestions and enter to select Sort by RelevanceSort by NewestSort by Oldest Refine results via Date Range Refine results via Section Refine results via Type Business Samsung's Phone Fortunes Wane as COVID-19 Hits 5G Phones in Europe and U.S. When the coronavirus outbreak in China disrupted global smartphone production in February, Samsung looked set to weather the crisis better than most thanks to its limited exposure there and launches of pricey 5G phones. Its fortunes are reversing. By Reuters Africa Riot Erupts at Coronavirus-Hit Prison in Sierra Leone Smoke billowed from the central prison in Sierra Leone's capital and gunfire could be heard from nearby streets on Wednesday after a riot broke out following the confirmation of a coronavirus case there, a Reuters reporter said. By Reuters Asia Pacific UN Human Rights Expert Accuse Myanmar Army of Fresh Abuses The U.N.’s human rights expert on Myanmar has called for a new investigation into allegations of war crimes and crimes against humanity during recent fighting in the Southeast Asian country as she approaches the end of her appointment. By The Associated Press Business Renault May Cut Sub-Contractors to Save Up to 200 Million Euros: Sources Renault is considering cutting the number of sub-contractors it uses to develop car models in its engineering division potentially saving the carmaker between 100 million to 200 million euros, two sources close to the company said. By Reuters AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Europe Sweden's Confirmed COVID-19 Cases Rise Above 20,000 The total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in Sweden rose past the 20,000 mark on Wednesday as the Nordic country reported 107 new deaths to put the tally at 2,462 since the outbreak began. By Reuters Europe Dutch Coronavirus Cases Rise to 38,802, With 145 New Deaths: Health Authorities The Netherlands' number of confirmed coronavirus cases has risen by 386 to 38,802 health authorities said on Wednesday, with 145 new deaths. By Reuters U.S. From a Loft Studio on a Farm, Professor Teaches Painting Fred Haag, an associate professor of visual arts at Penn State York, normally teaches his Art 50: Introduction to Painting course in a large studio at a state-of-the art performing arts center. By The Associated Press Smarter Living How to Stay Optimistic When Everything Seems Wrong Optimism isn’t about ignoring negative feelings. It’s about being hopeful about the future, even when the present seems wholly negative. By Kristin Wong Europe Gourmet Meals in Jars a Hit in Lockdown Moscow A delivery service that provides the apartment-bound residents of Moscow with restaurant-quality ready meals squeezed into glass jars amid the coronavirus lockdown is expanding to keep pace with increasing demand, its founder said. By Reuters Europe Germany Buys Extra Flu Jabs to Avoid Double Hit to Healthcare The coronavirus pandemic is a long way from over, German Health Minister Jens Spahn said on Wednesday, announcing measures, including ramped-up purchases of flu vaccines, to help ready the healthcare system for a long-term challenge. By Reuters Have search feedback? Let us know what you think. Show More Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions