https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115010905707-Log-in-on-all-your-devices
Log in on all your devices – Help
HOME Help | Account | Contact Help Account management Manage account Log in on all your devices Your NYTimes digital subscription can be accessed on the NYTimes website (nytimes.com) and on any device. How to log in to nytimes.com In your preferred web browser, go to nytimes.com. In the top right corner of your browser window, click the blue Log In button. You may choose to log in with your Facebook, Google, or Apple account credentials (for more information visit our Social Login FAQs). Or, enter the email address associated with your subscription, your password, and click Log in. How to log in to the NYTimes app for iOS Download the NYTimes app on your iPhone or iPad. Launch the NYTimes app from your iOS device. Tap the For You section on the bottom of the screen. Tap the gear wheel icon on the top right corner of your screen to open the Settings menu. At the top of the Settings menu, tap Log In. You may choose to log in with your Facebook, Google, or Apple account credentials (for more information visit our Social Login FAQs). Otherwise, enter the email address associated with your subscription, your password, and tap Log In. How to log in to the NYTimes app for Android Download the NYTimes app on your Android device. Launch the NYTimes app from your Android device. Tap the overflow icon (three vertical dots) on the top right corner of your screen and select Log In or Create Account from the drop-down list. You may choose to log in with your Facebook or Google account credentials (for more information visit our Social Login FAQs). Otherwise, select Log in with email instead. You may then enter the email address associated with your subscription, your password, and tap Log in. Can't find what you're looking for? Review our Help topics or chat with one of our Customer Care advocates. Return to top © The New York Times Company Contact Us Work with us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Sitemap Help Subscriptions