https://www.nytimes.com/content/help/account/purchases/subscriptions-and-purchases.html
Digital subscriptions – Help
HOME Help | Account | Contact Help Learn about subscriptions About subscriptions Digital subscriptions 1. What is a digital subscription? How much does it cost? A digital subscription provides access to NYTimes content. Each subscription offers a different level of access. Please note: NYTimes apps are not supported on all devices. NYTimes digital subscriptions do not include e-reader editions (e.g., Kindle, Nook, Sony Reader, Kobo Reader) or The New York Times Crossword. Additional restrictions apply. Ready to subscribe? Check out our current offers >> 2. I get home delivery of the newspaper. Do I get free digital access? Yes, print subscribers to The New York Times and The International New York Times get free access to NYTimes.com, plus the full range of NYTimes apps. Digital access is provided to all print subscribers, no matter what type of subscription you have (daily, weekday, Weekender, etc.). You also qualify for free digital access if your home delivery is provided by a third party rather than by The New York Times directly. If your home delivery account is already connected to the account you use to read and comment on NYTimes.com, you won't need to do a thing. If not, you'll just need to connect your home delivery account to an NYTimes.com account. To begin the simple two-step linking process, click the Get started link below. You'll need either your home delivery account number, your phone number or the last four digits of the credit card you used to pay for your home delivery subscription. Get started » Please note: Free digital access is for home delivery customers only. If you purchase single copies of the newspaper at a newsstand or other retailer, you will need to purchase a digital subscription separately. E-reader editions (Kindle, Nook, Sony Reader, Kobo Reader) are not free to print subscribers. 3. What if I don't want to subscribe — can I still read NYTimes.com for free? Visitors have free access to a limited number of articles (including blog posts, slide shows and other multimedia features) on NYTimes.com. NYTimes apps are free to download and install, and include some free content. 4. How are digital subscriptions billed? As a digital subscriber, you can pay via debit or credit card, PayPal, or Apple Pay. Your payment method will be charged automatically on a recurring basis. Your subscription will be renewed automatically, and you will be charged in advance of each billing cycle unless you cancel. View the NYTimes Terms of Sale. Please note: If you purchased your subscription through iTunes, please refer to the iTunes Store Terms of Sale. View the iTunes Store Terms of Sale. 5. How can I share my digital subscription? As a New York Times subscriber you can share All Digital Access, which provides free access to NYTimes.com on any device and the NYTimes apps. Depending on your subscription plan, you can share digital access to The New York Times with one or two people. The recipients will have digital access to NYTimes for as long as you remain a subscriber, or until you revoke their access. For more information, see Sharing bonus subscriptions. Please note: Digital subscribers receiving the college rate or teacher rate and digital subscribers receiving access through a group subscription or a group pass are not eligible to share their access with a family member. 6. What is the cancellation and refund policy? You can change or cancel your subscription at any time by contacting Customer Care. If you are in the United States, please call 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637). If you are outside of the United States, click here to find the Customer Care phone number serving your country. When you cancel, we will stop charging your account the following billing cycle. Each billing cycle is four weeks, so your access will continue for the remainder of the current four-week period. View the full NYTimes cancellation and refund policy » Please note: If you purchased your subscription through a third-party application, please refer to the relevant terms. 7. Can I get a digital subscription to the NYTimes.com website only? No. Digital subscription packages give you ongoing access to NYTimes.com on any computer or device, plus NYTimes apps. 8. How do I download the apps that are included with my digital subscription? To download NYTimes smartphone and tablet apps, visit our Mobile apps page. 9. Can I access NYTimes.com articles through search engines, blogs and social media? Yes. We encourage links from search engines, blogs and social media. When you visit NYTimes.com through a link from one of these channels, that article (or video, slide show, etc.) will count toward your limit of free articles. 10. How do I change the email address that's associated with my digital subscription? To change your email address, visit your account area. In the Profile section, select Change Email. Enter a new address, and then select Save. If the email address you want to use is already associated with a different NYTimes.com account, an error message will appear. To resolve this, please complete the steps in the Subscription email address help article. If you're still unable to change your email address, please contact Customer Care. 11. How do I change my digital subscription? Currently, you must contact Customer Care to change your digital subscription. 12. Can I give someone a digital subscription as a gift? Yes. You can give a 3 month, 6 month, or 12 month digital or home delivery subscription as a gift. For more information, see the Gift Subscriptions FAQ. Order now » 13. Do you have an education, group or corporate subscription program? Are there any subscription discounts? Yes. We offer group and corporate subscriptions and education discounts.To learn more, visit our Corporate Digital Subscriptions page, college rate page, teacher rate page or Education Group Subscriptions. Can't find what you're looking for? Review our Help topics or chat with one of our Customer Care advocates. Return to top © The New York Times Company Contact Us Work with us Advertise Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Sitemap Help Subscriptions