https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2016_Constitution_Party_presidential_primaries
2016 Constitution Party presidential primaries - Wikipedia
2016 Constitution Party presidential primaries From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Constitution Party presidential primaries, 2016 ← 2012 March 8–15, 2016 2020 → 339½ delegates to the Constitution Party National Convention Candidate Uncommitted Scott Copeland Home state n/a Texas Contests won 1 1 Popular vote 691 250 Percentage 58.8% 21.3% Candidate J. R. Myers Patrick Anthony Ockander Home state Alaska Texas Contests won 0 0 Popular vote 139 95 Percentage 11.8% 8.1% First place by first-instance vote Scott Copeland (1) Uncommitted (1) No contest (48) Previous Constitution Party nominee Virgil Goode Constitution Party nominee Darrell Castle 2016 U.S. presidential election Timeline General election debates Parties Polling national statewide by demographics international Newspaper endorsements primary general Russian interference Media coverage Social media International reactions Electors Recounts Faithless electors Republican Party Primaries Candidates Debates and forums Polling national statewide straw polls Endorsements Results Nominee VP candidate selection Convention Democratic Party Primaries Candidates Debates and forums Polling national statewide straw polls Endorsements Results Nominee VP candidate selection Convention Superdelegates Minor parties Third party and independent candidates Libertarian Party primaries debates nominee convention Green Party primaries debates nominee convention Constitution Party primaries nominee Reform Party primaries nominee American Solidarity Party Maturen Independents McMullin Related races House Senate Governors ← 2012 2016 2020 → v t e The Constitution Party held a primary election in the states of Idaho and Missouri during the 2016 election season in order to allocate delegates from that state to the 2016 Constitution Party National Convention. Contents 1 Candidates 2 Results 2.1 National 2.2 Idaho primary 2.3 Missouri primary 3 See also 4 References Candidates[edit] Candidate Profession State Campaign Darrell Castle Attorney. Owner of Darrell Castle and Associates. Constitution Party Nominee for Vice President of the United States (2008) Tennessee (Campaign • Website) Running mate: Scott Bradley Scott Copeland Texas Results[edit] National[edit] Scott Copeland J.R. Myers Patrick Anthony Ockander Uncommitted Tie No votes Idaho primary[edit] The Constitution Party of Idaho held its primary on March 8. Election results, by county, of the 2016 Constitution presidential primary in Idaho Scott Copeland J.R. Myers Patrick Anthony Ockander Tie No votes Idaho Constitution Party presidential primary, 2016[1][2][3] Candidate Popular vote Pledged delegates Count Percentage Scott Copeland 250 51.7% 8 J.R. Myers 139 28.7% 0 Patrick Anthony Ockander 95 19.6% 0 Total: 484 100% 8 Key: Withdrew prior to contest Missouri primary[edit] Election results, by county, of the 2016 Constitution presidential primary in Missouri Uncommitted No votes The Constitution Party of Missouri held its primary on March 15. No candidate made it on the ballot, and the only option for voters was "Uncommitted". Missouri Constitution Party presidential primary, 2016[4] Candidate Popular vote Count Percentage Uncommitted 691 100% Total: 691 100% See also[edit] Presidential primaries Democratic Party presidential primaries, 2016 Green Party presidential primaries, 2016 Libertarian Party presidential primaries, 2016 Republican Party presidential primaries, 2016 References[edit] ^ "Mar 08, 2016 Presidential Primary Election Results United States - by County". sos.idaho.gov. Idaho Secretary Of State. Retrieved November 25, 2016. ^ Gr, The; Inquirer (March 10, 2016). "Scott Copeland wins Idaho Constitution Party primary". The Grand Inquirer. Retrieved November 26, 2016. ^ Gr, The; Inquirer (March 2, 2016). "Patrick Ockander drops out of Constitution Party presidential race, endorses J.R. Myers and Ted Cruz". The Grand Inquirer. Retrieved November 26, 2016. ^ IT, Missouri Secretary of State -. "State of Missouri - Election Night Results". enrarchives.sos.mo.gov. Retrieved November 21, 2016. v t e (2012 ←) 2016 United States presidential election (→ 2020) 2016 United States elections Fundraising Political positions Polls national demographically statewide pre 2016 Jan–Aug 2016 international Social media Timeline General election debates Newspaper endorsements primary Vote pairing Recounts Russian interference Faithless electors Republican Party Debates and forums Endorsements Primaries Results Convention Polls national statewide straw Candidates (VP) Nominee Donald Trump campaign endorsements primary positions protests Republican opposition VP nominee: Mike Pence Other candidates Jeb Bush campaign positions Ben Carson campaign Chris Christie campaign Ted Cruz campaign endorsements positions Mark Everson Jack Fellure Carly Fiorina campaign Jim Gilmore campaign Lindsey Graham campaign Mike Huckabee campaign positions Bobby Jindal campaign John Kasich campaign endorsements Josue Larose Dennis Michael Lynch Andy Martin Jimmy McMillan George Pataki campaign Rand Paul campaign positions Rick Perry campaign positions Marco Rubio campaign positions Rick Santorum campaign Scott Walker campaign Democratic Party Political positions Endorsements Debates and forums Primaries Results Superdelegates Convention Polls national statewide straw Candidates (VP) Nominee Hillary Clinton campaign endorsements political non-political positions Democratic opposition VP nominee: Tim Kaine Other candidates Jeff Boss Harry Braun Lincoln Chafee campaign Rocky De La Fuente campaign Paul T. Farrell Jr. Keith Judd Lawrence Lessig campaign Martin O'Malley campaign Bernie Sanders campaign endorsements positions Sam Sloan Michael Steinberg Vermin Supreme Jim Webb campaign Robby Wells Willie Wilson John Wolfe Jr. Libertarian Party Debates and forums Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Gary Johnson campaign endorsements positions VP nominee: Bill Weld Other candidates John McAfee Austin Petersen Darryl W. Perry Vermin Supreme Green Party Debates and forums Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Jill Stein campaign endorsements VP nominee: Ajamu Baraka Other candidates Darryl Cherney Sedinam Kinamo Christin Moyowasifza Curry Constitution Party Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Darrell Castle campaign VP nominee: Scott Bradley Other candidates Tom Hoefling Independent Better for America Evan McMullin campaign endorsements Mindy Finn Other third-party and independent candidates American Delta Party Rocky De La Fuente campaign VP nominee: Michael Steinberg American Party of South Carolina Peter Skewes American Solidarity Party Mike Maturen America's Party Wiley Drake James Hedges Tom Hoefling Nutrition Party Rod Silva Party for Socialism and Liberation Gloria La Riva VP nominee: Eugene Puryear* Peace and Freedom Party Gloria La Riva VP nominee: Dennis Banks Other candidates Monica Moorehead Jill Stein Prohibition Party James Hedges Reform Party Rocky De La Fuente campaign VP nominee: Michael Steinberg Other candidates Darcy Richardson Socialist Action Jeff Mackler Socialist Equality Party Jerry White Socialist Party USA Mimi Soltysik campaign VP nominee: Angela Nicole Walker Socialist Workers Party Alyson Kennedy VP nominee: Osborne Hart United States Pacifist Party Bradford Lyttle Workers World Party Monica Moorehead Independent candidates Laurence Kotlikoff * : These candidates are constitutionally ineligible to serve as President or Vice President. Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=2016_Constitution_Party_presidential_primaries&oldid=941360209" Categories: Constitution Party (United States) 2016 United States presidential primaries Hidden categories: Use mdy dates from August 2016 Pages using deprecated image syntax Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Add links This page was last edited on 18 February 2020, at 03:14 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view