https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Federal_Bureau_of_Investigation
Federal Bureau of Investigation - Wikipedia
Federal Bureau of Investigation From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search "FBI" redirects here. For other uses, see FBI (disambiguation). Governmental agency belonging to the United States Department of Justice Federal Bureau of Investigation Federal Bureau of Investigation's seal FBI special agent badge Flag of the Federal Bureau of Investigation Abbreviation FBI Motto Fidelity, Bravery, Integrity Agency overview Formed July 26, 1908 (as the Bureau of Investigation) Employees 35,104[1] (October 31, 2014) Annual budget US$9.6 billion (FY 2019)[2] Jurisdictional structure Federal agency United States Operations jurisdiction United States General nature Federal law enforcement Headquarters J. Edgar Hoover Building Washington, D.C., U.S. 38°53′43″N 77°01′30″W﻿ / ﻿38.8952°N 77.0251°W﻿ / 38.8952; -77.0251Coordinates: 38°53′43″N 77°01′30″W﻿ / ﻿38.8952°N 77.0251°W﻿ / 38.8952; -77.0251 Agency executives Christopher A. Wray, Director David Bowdich, Deputy Director Paul Abbate, Associate Deputy Director Parent agency Department of Justice Office of the Director of National Intelligence Website fbi.gov The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) is the domestic intelligence and security service of the United States and its principal federal law enforcement agency. Operating under the jurisdiction of the United States Department of Justice, the FBI is also a member of the U.S. Intelligence Community and reports to both the Attorney General and the Director of National Intelligence.[3] A leading U.S. counter-terrorism, counterintelligence, and criminal investigative organization, the FBI has jurisdiction over violations of more than 200 categories of federal crimes.[4][5] Although many of the FBI's functions are unique, its activities in support of national security are comparable to those of the British MI5 and the Russian FSB. Unlike the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), which has no law enforcement authority and is focused on intelligence collection abroad, the FBI is primarily a domestic agency, maintaining 56 field offices in major cities throughout the United States, and more than 400 resident agencies in smaller cities and areas across the nation. At an FBI field office, a senior-level FBI officer concurrently serves as the representative of the Director of National Intelligence.[6][7] Despite its domestic focus, the FBI also maintains a significant international footprint, operating 60 Legal Attache (LEGAT) offices and 15 sub-offices in U.S. embassies and consulates across the globe. These foreign offices exist primarily for the purpose of coordination with foreign security services and do not usually conduct unilateral operations in the host countries.[8] The FBI can and does at times carry out secret activities overseas,[9] just as the CIA has a limited domestic function; these activities generally require coordination across government agencies. The FBI was established in 1908 as the Bureau of Investigation, the BOI or BI for short. Its name was changed to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) in 1935.[10] The FBI headquarters is the J. Edgar Hoover Building, located in Washington, D.C. Contents 1 Budget, mission, and priorities 2 History 2.1 Background 2.2 Creation of BOI 2.3 Creation of FBI 2.4 J. Edgar Hoover as FBI Director 2.4.1 National security 2.4.2 Japanese American internment 2.4.3 Sex deviates program 2.4.4 Civil rights movement 2.4.5 Kennedy's assassination 2.5 Organized crime 2.6 Special FBI teams 2.7 Notable efforts in the 1990s 2.8 September 11 attacks 2.9 Faulty bullet analysis 3 Organization 3.1 Organizational structure 3.2 Rank structure 4 Legal authority 4.1 Indian reservations 5 Infrastructure 6 Personnel 6.1 Hiring process 6.2 BOI and FBI directors 7 Firearms 8 Publications 8.1 Crime statistics 8.1.1 Uniform Crime Reports 8.1.2 National Incident-Based Reporting System 9 eGuardian 10 Controversies 11 Media portrayal 12 Notable FBI personnel 13 See also 13.1 Additional links 14 References 15 Further reading 16 External links Budget, mission, and priorities FBI Domestic Investigations and Operations Guide In the fiscal year 2019, the Bureau's total budget was approximately $9.6 billion.[2] The FBI's main goal is to protect and defend the United States, to uphold and enforce the criminal laws of the United States, and to provide leadership and criminal justice services to federal, state, municipal, and international agencies and partners.[5] Currently, the FBI's top priorities are:[11] Protect the United States from terrorist attacks Protect the United States against foreign intelligence operations and espionage Protect the United States against cyber-based attacks and high-technology crimes Combat public corruption at all levels Protect civil rights, Combat transnational/national criminal organizations and enterprises Combat major white-collar crime Combat significant violent crime Support federal, state, local and international partners Upgrade technology to enable, and further, the successful performances of its missions as stated above History Background In 1896, the National Bureau of Criminal Identification was founded, which provided agencies across the country with information to identify known criminals. The 1901 assassination of President William McKinley created a perception that the United States was under threat from anarchists. The Departments of Justice and Labor had been keeping records on anarchists for years, but President Theodore Roosevelt wanted more power to monitor them.[12] The Justice Department had been tasked with the regulation of interstate commerce since 1887, though it lacked the staff to do so. It had made little effort to relieve its staff shortage until the Oregon land fraud scandal at the turn of the 20th Century. President Roosevelt instructed Attorney General Charles Bonaparte to organize an autonomous investigative service that would report only to the Attorney General.[13] Bonaparte reached out to other agencies, including the U.S. Secret Service, for personnel, investigators in particular. On May 27, 1908, the Congress forbade this use of Treasury employees by the Justice Department, citing fears that the new agency would serve as a secret police department.[14] Again at Roosevelt's urging, Bonaparte moved to organize a formal Bureau of Investigation, which would then have its own staff of special agents.[12] Creation of BOI The Bureau of Investigation (BOI) was created on July 26, 1908.[15] Attorney General Bonaparte, using Department of Justice expense funds,[12] hired thirty-four people, including some veterans of the Secret Service,[16][17] to work for a new investigative agency. Its first "Chief" (the title is now known as "Director") was Stanley Finch. Bonaparte notified the Congress of these actions in December 1908.[12] The bureau's first official task was visiting and making surveys of the houses of prostitution in preparation for enforcing the "White Slave Traffic Act," or Mann Act, passed on June 25, 1910. In 1932, the bureau was renamed the United States Bureau of Investigation. Creation of FBI The following year, 1933, the BOI was linked to the Bureau of Prohibition and rechristened the Division of Investigation (DOI) before finally becoming an independent service within the Department of Justice in 1935.[16] In the same year, its name was officially changed from the Division of Investigation to the present day Federal Bureau of Investigation, or FBI. J. Edgar Hoover as FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover, FBI Director from 1924 to 1972 J. Edgar Hoover served as FBI Director from 1924 to 1972, a combined 48 years with the BOI, DOI, and FBI. He was chiefly responsible for creating the Scientific Crime Detection Laboratory, or the FBI Laboratory, which officially opened in 1932, as part of his work to professionalize investigations by the government. Hoover was substantially involved in most major cases and projects that the FBI handled during his tenure. But as detailed below, his proved to be a highly controversial tenure as Bureau Director, especially in its later years. After Hoover's death, the Congress passed legislation that limited the tenure of future FBI Directors to ten years. Early homicide investigations of the new agency included the Osage Indian murders. During the "War on Crime" of the 1930s, FBI agents apprehended or killed a number of notorious criminals who committed kidnappings, bank robberies, and murders throughout the nation, including John Dillinger, "Baby Face" Nelson, Kate "Ma" Barker, Alvin "Creepy" Karpis, and George "Machine Gun" Kelly. Other activities of its early decades included a decisive role in reducing the scope and influence of the white supremacist group Ku Klux Klan. Additionally, through the work of Edwin Atherton, the BOI claimed to have successfully apprehended an entire army of Mexican neo-revolutionaries under the leadership of General Enrique Estrada in the mid-1920s, east of San Diego, California. Hoover began using wiretapping in the 1920s during Prohibition to arrest bootleggers.[18] In the 1927 case Olmstead v. United States, in which a bootlegger was caught through telephone tapping, the United States Supreme Court ruled that FBI wiretaps did not violate the Fourth Amendment as unlawful search and seizure, as long as the FBI did not break into a person's home to complete the tapping.[18] After Prohibition's repeal, Congress passed the Communications Act of 1934, which outlawed non-consensual phone tapping, but did allow bugging.[18] In the 1939 case Nardone v. United States, the court ruled that due to the 1934 law, evidence the FBI obtained by phone tapping was inadmissible in court.[18] After the 1967 case Katz v. United States overturned the 1927 case that had allowed bugging, Congress passed the Omnibus Crime Control Act, allowing public authorities to tap telephones during investigations, as long as they obtained warrants beforehand.[18] National security Beginning in the 1940s and continuing into the 1970s, the bureau investigated cases of espionage against the United States and its allies. Eight Nazi agents who had planned sabotage operations against American targets were arrested, and six were executed (Ex parte Quirin) under their sentences. Also during this time, a joint US/UK code-breaking effort called "The Venona Project"—with which the FBI was heavily involved—broke Soviet diplomatic and intelligence communications codes, allowing the US and British governments to read Soviet communications. This effort confirmed the existence of Americans working in the United States for Soviet intelligence.[19] Hoover was administering this project, but he failed to notify the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) of it until 1952. Another notable case was the arrest of Soviet spy Rudolf Abel in 1957.[20] The discovery of Soviet spies operating in the US allowed Hoover to pursue his longstanding obsession with the threat he perceived from the American Left, ranging from Communist Party of the United States of America (CPUSA) union organizers to American liberals. Japanese American internment In 1939, the Bureau began compiling a custodial detention list with the names of those who would be taken into custody in the event of war with Axis nations. The majority of the names on the list belonged to Issei community leaders, as the FBI investigation built on an existing Naval Intelligence index that had focused on Japanese Americans in Hawaii and the West Coast, but many German and Italian nationals also found their way onto the secret list.[21] Robert Shivers, head of the Honolulu office, obtained permission from Hoover to start detaining those on the list on December 7, 1941, while bombs were still falling over Pearl Harbor.[22] Mass arrests and searches of homes (in most cases conducted without warrants) began a few hours after the attack, and over the next several weeks more than 5,500 Issei men were taken into FBI custody.[23] On February 19, 1942, President Franklin Roosevelt issued Executive Order 9066, authorizing the removal of Japanese Americans from the West Coast. FBI Director Hoover opposed the subsequent mass removal and confinement of Japanese Americans authorized under Executive Order 9066, but Roosevelt prevailed.[24] The vast majority went along with the subsequent exclusion orders, but in a handful of cases where Japanese Americans refused to obey the new military regulations, FBI agents handled their arrests.[22] The Bureau continued surveillance on Japanese Americans throughout the war, conducting background checks on applicants for resettlement outside camp, and entering the camps (usually without the permission of War Relocation Authority officials) and grooming informants to monitor dissidents and "troublemakers." After the war, the FBI was assigned to protect returning Japanese Americans from attacks by hostile white communities.[22] Sex deviates program According to Douglas M. Charles, the FBI's "sex deviates" program began on April 10, 1950, when J. Edgar Hoover forwarded to the White House, to the U.S. Civil Service Commission, and to branches of the armed services a list of 393 alleged federal employees who had allegedly been arrested in Washington, D.C., since 1947, on charges of "sexual irregularities". On June 20, 1951, Hoover expanded the program by issuing a memo establishing a "uniform policy for the handling of the increasing number of reports and allegations concerning present and past employees of the United State Government who assertedly [sic] are sex deviates." The program was expanded to include non-government jobs. According to Athan Theoharis, "In 1951 he [Hoover] had unilaterally instituted a Sex Deviates program to purge alleged homosexuals from any position in the federal government, from the lowliest clerk to the more powerful position of White house aide." On May 27, 1953, Executive Order 10450 went into effect. The program was expanded further by this executive order by making all federal employment of homosexuals illegal. On July 8, 1953, the FBI forwarded to the U.S. Civil Service Commission information from the sex deviates program. In 1977–1978, 300,000 pages, collected between 1930 to the mid-1970s, in the sex deviates program were destroyed by FBI officials.[25][26][27] Civil rights movement During the 1950s and 1960s, FBI officials became increasingly concerned about the influence of civil rights leaders, whom they believed either had communist ties or were unduly influenced by communists or "fellow travellers." In 1956, for example, Hoover sent an open letter denouncing Dr. T. R. M. Howard, a civil rights leader, surgeon, and wealthy entrepreneur in Mississippi who had criticized FBI inaction in solving recent murders of George W. Lee, Emmett Till, and other blacks in the South.[28] The FBI carried out controversial domestic surveillance in an operation it called the COINTELPRO, from "COunter-INTELligence PROgram."[29] It was to investigate and disrupt the activities of dissident political organizations within the United States, including both militant and non-violent organizations. Among its targets was the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, a leading civil rights organization whose clergy leadership included the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., who is addressed in more detail below.[30] The "suicide letter",[31] mailed anonymously to King by the FBI The FBI frequently investigated Martin Luther King, Jr. In the mid-1960s, King began publicly criticizing the Bureau for giving insufficient attention to the use of terrorism by white supremacists. Hoover responded by publicly calling King the most "notorious liar" in the United States.[32] In his 1991 memoir, Washington Post journalist Carl Rowan asserted that the FBI had sent at least one anonymous letter to King encouraging him to commit suicide.[33] Historian Taylor Branch documents an anonymous November 1964 "suicide package" sent by the Bureau that combined a letter to the civil rights leader telling him "You are done. There is only one way out for you..." with audio recordings of King's sexual indiscretions.[34] In March 1971, the residential office of an FBI agent in Media, Pennsylvania was burgled by a group calling itself the Citizens' Commission to Investigate the FBI. Numerous files were taken and distributed to a range of newspapers, including The Harvard Crimson.[35] The files detailed the FBI's extensive COINTELPRO program, which included investigations into lives of ordinary citizens—including a black student group at a Pennsylvania military college and the daughter of Congressman Henry Reuss of Wisconsin.[35] The country was "jolted" by the revelations, which included assassinations of political activists, and the actions were denounced by members of the Congress, including House Majority Leader Hale Boggs.[35] The phones of some members of the Congress, including Boggs, had allegedly been tapped.[35] Kennedy's assassination When President John F. Kennedy was shot and killed, the jurisdiction fell to the local police departments until President Lyndon B. Johnson directed the FBI to take over the investigation.[36] To ensure clarity about the responsibility for investigation of homicides of federal officials, the Congress passed a law that included investigations of such deaths of federal officials, especially by homicide, within FBI jurisdiction. This new law was passed in 1965.[37][38][39] Organized crime An FBI surveillance photograph of Joseph D. Pistone (aka Donnie Brasco), Benjamin "Lefty" Ruggiero and Edgar Robb (aka Tony Rossi), 1980s In response to organized crime, on August 25, 1953, the FBI created the Top Hoodlum Program. The national office directed field offices to gather information on mobsters in their territories and to report it regularly to Washington for a centralized collection of intelligence on racketeers.[40] After the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, or RICO Act, took effect, the FBI began investigating the former Prohibition-organized groups, which had become fronts for crime in major cities and small towns. All of the FBI work was done undercover and from within these organizations, using the provisions provided in the RICO Act. Gradually the agency dismantled many of the groups. Although Hoover initially denied the existence of a National Crime Syndicate in the United States, the Bureau later conducted operations against known organized crime syndicates and families, including those headed by Sam Giancana and John Gotti. The RICO Act is still used today for all organized crime and any individuals who may fall under the Act's provisions. In 2003, a congressional committee called the FBI's organized crime informant program "one of the greatest failures in the history of federal law enforcement."[41] The FBI allowed four innocent men to be convicted of the March 1965 gangland murder of Edward "Teddy" Deegan in order to protect Vincent Flemmi, an FBI informant. Three of the men were sentenced to death (which was later reduced to life in prison), and the fourth defendant was sentenced to life in prison.[41] Two of the four men died in prison after serving almost 30 years, and two others were released after serving 32 and 36 years. In July 2007, U.S. District Judge Nancy Gertner in Boston found that the Bureau had helped convict the four men using false witness accounts given by mobster Joseph Barboza. The U.S. Government was ordered to pay $100 million in damages to the four defendants.[42] Special FBI teams FBI SWAT agents in a training exercise In 1982, the FBI formed an elite unit[43] to help with problems that might arise at the 1984 Summer Olympics to be held in Los Angeles, particularly terrorism and major-crime. This was a result of the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich, Germany, when terrorists murdered the Israeli athletes. Named the Hostage Rescue Team, or HRT, it acts as a dedicated FBI SWAT team dealing primarily with counter-terrorism scenarios. Unlike the Special Agents serving on local FBI SWAT teams, HRT does not conduct investigations. Instead, HRT focuses solely on additional tactical proficiency and capabilities. Also formed in 1984 was the Computer Analysis and Response Team, or CART.[44] From the end of the 1980s to the early 1990s, the FBI reassigned more than 300 agents from foreign counter-intelligence duties to violent crime, and made violent crime the sixth national priority. With reduced cuts to other well-established departments, and because terrorism was no longer considered a threat after the end of the Cold War,[44] the FBI assisted local and state police forces in tracking fugitives who had crossed state lines, which is a federal offense. The FBI Laboratory helped develop DNA testing, continuing its pioneering role in identification that began with its fingerprinting system in 1924. Notable efforts in the 1990s An FBI agent tags the cockpit voice recorder from EgyptAir Flight 990 on the deck of the USS Grapple (ARS 53) at the crash site on November 13, 1999. On May 1, 1992, FBI SWAT and HRT personnel in Los Angeles County, California aided local officials in securing peace within the area during the infamous 1992 Los Angeles riots. HRT operators for instance spent 10 days conducting vehicle mounted patrols throughout Los Angeles, before returning to Virginia.[45] Between 1993 and 1996, the FBI increased its counter-terrorism role in the wake of the first 1993 World Trade Center bombing in New York City, the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing, and the arrest of the Unabomber in 1996. Technological innovation and the skills of FBI Laboratory analysts helped ensure that the three cases were successfully prosecuted.[46] But Justice Department investigations into the FBI's roles in the Ruby Ridge and Waco incidents were found to have been obstructed by agents within the Bureau. During the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, Georgia, the FBI was criticized for its investigation of the Centennial Olympic Park bombing. It has settled a dispute with Richard Jewell, who was a private security guard at the venue, along with some media organizations,[47] in regard to the leaking of his name during the investigation; this had briefly led to his being wrongly suspected of the bombing. After Congress passed the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (CALEA, 1994), the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA, 1996), and the Economic Espionage Act (EEA, 1996), the FBI followed suit and underwent a technological upgrade in 1998, just as it did with its CART team in 1991. Computer Investigations and Infrastructure Threat Assessment Center (CITAC) and the National Infrastructure Protection Center (NIPC) were created to deal with the increase in Internet-related problems, such as computer viruses, worms, and other malicious programs that threatened U.S. operations. With these developments, the FBI increased its electronic surveillance in public safety and national security investigations, adapting to the telecommunications advancements that changed the nature of such problems. September 11 attacks September 11 attacks at the Pentagon During the September 11, 2001, attacks on the World Trade Center, FBI agent Leonard W. Hatton Jr. was killed during the rescue effort while helping the rescue personnel evacuate the occupants of the South Tower, and he stayed when it collapsed. Within months after the attacks, FBI Director Robert Mueller, who had been sworn in a week before the attacks, called for a re-engineering of FBI structure and operations. He made countering every federal crime a top priority, including the prevention of terrorism, countering foreign intelligence operations, addressing cyber security threats, other high-tech crimes, protecting civil rights, combating public corruption, organized crime, white-collar crime, and major acts of violent crime.[48] In February 2001, Robert Hanssen was caught selling information to the Russian government. It was later learned that Hanssen, who had reached a high position within the FBI, had been selling intelligence since as early as 1979. He pleaded guilty to espionage and received a life sentence in 2002, but the incident led many to question the security practices employed by the FBI. There was also a claim that Hanssen might have contributed information that led to the September 11, 2001 attacks.[49] The 9/11 Commission's final report on July 22, 2004, stated that the FBI and Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) were both partially to blame for not pursuing intelligence reports that could have prevented the September 11 attacks. In its most damning assessment, the report concluded that the country had "not been well served" by either agency and listed numerous recommendations for changes within the FBI.[50] While the FBI did accede to most of the recommendations, including oversight by the new Director of National Intelligence, some former members of the 9/11 Commission publicly criticized the FBI in October 2005, claiming it was resisting any meaningful changes.[51] On July 8, 2007, The Washington Post published excerpts from UCLA Professor Amy Zegart's book Spying Blind: The CIA, the FBI, and the Origins of 9/11.[52] The Post reported, from Zegart's book, that government documents showed that both the CIA and the FBI had missed 23 potential chances to disrupt the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. The primary reasons for the failures included: agency cultures resistant to change and new ideas; inappropriate incentives for promotion; and a lack of cooperation between the FBI, CIA and the rest of the United States Intelligence Community. The book blamed the FBI's decentralized structure, which prevented effective communication and cooperation among different FBI offices. The book suggested that the FBI had not evolved into an effective counter-terrorism or counter-intelligence agency, due in large part to deeply ingrained agency cultural resistance to change. For example, FBI personnel practices continued to treat all staff other than special agents as support staff, classifying intelligence analysts alongside the FBI's auto mechanics and janitors.[53] Faulty bullet analysis For over 40 years, the FBI crime lab in Quantico had believed that lead alloys used in bullets had unique chemical signatures. It was analyzing the bullets with the goal of matching them chemically, not only to a single batch of ammunition coming out of a factory, but also to a single box of bullets. The National Academy of Sciences conducted an 18-month independent review of comparative bullet-lead analysis. In 2003, its National Research Council published a report whose conclusions called into question 30 years of FBI testimony. It found the analytic model used by the FBI for interpreting results was deeply flawed, and the conclusion, that bullet fragments could be matched to a box of ammunition, was so overstated that it was misleading under the rules of evidence. One year later, the FBI decided to stop conducting bullet lead analyses.[54] After a 60 Minutes/Washington Post investigation in November 2007, two years later, the Bureau agreed to identify, review, and release all pertinent cases, and notify prosecutors about cases in which faulty testimony was given.[55] Organization Organizational structure This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Federal Bureau of Investigation" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (July 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) FBI field divisions map Organization chart for the FBI as of July 15, 2014 Redacted policy guide for the Counterterrorism Division (part of the FBI National Security Branch) The FBI is organized into functional branches and the Office of the Director, which contains most administrative offices. An executive assistant director manages each branch. Each branch is then divided into offices and divisions, each headed by an assistant director. The various divisions are further divided into sub-branches, led by deputy assistant directors. Within these sub-branches there are various sections headed by section chiefs. Section chiefs are ranked analogous to special agents in charge. Four of the branches report to the deputy director while two report to the associate director. The functional branches of the FBI are: FBI Intelligence Branch FBI National Security Branch FBI Criminal, Cyber, Response, and Services Branch FBI Science and Technology Branch FBI Information and Technology Branch FBI Human Resources Branch The Office of the Director serves as the central administrative organ of the FBI. The office provides staff support functions (such as finance and facilities management) to the five function branches and the various field divisions. The office is managed by the FBI associate director, who also oversees the operations of both the Information and Technology and Human Resources Branches. Office of the Director Immediate Office of the Director Office of the Deputy Director Office of the Associate Deputy Director Office of Congressional Affairs Office of Equal Employment Opportunity Affairs Office of the General Counsel Office of Integrity and Compliance Office of the Ombudsman Office of Professional Responsibility Office of Public Affairs Inspection Division Facilities and Finance Services Division Resource Planning Office Information Management Division Office of the Chief Information Officer An FBI agent at a crime scene Rank structure The following is a listing of the rank structure found within the FBI (in ascending order):[56] Field Agents New Agent Trainee Special Agent Senior Special Agent Supervisory Special Agent Assistant Special Agent-in-Charge (ASAC) Special Agent-in-Charge (SAC) James Comey speaks at the White House following his nomination by President Barack Obama to be the next director of the FBI, June 21, 2013 FBI Management Deputy Assistant Director Assistant Director Associate Executive Assistant Director Executive Assistant Director Associate Deputy Director Deputy Chief of Staff Chief of Staff and Special Counsel to the Director Deputy Director Director Legal authority FBI badge and service pistol, a Glock Model 22, .40 S&W caliber The FBI's mandate is established in Title 28 of the United States Code (U.S. Code), Section 533, which authorizes the Attorney General to "appoint officials to detect and prosecute crimes against the United States."[57] Other federal statutes give the FBI the authority and responsibility to investigate specific crimes. The FBI's chief tool against organized crime is the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations (RICO) Act. The FBI is also charged with the responsibility of enforcing compliance of the United States Civil Rights Act of 1964 and investigating violations of the act in addition to prosecuting such violations with the United States Department of Justice (DOJ). The FBI also shares concurrent jurisdiction with the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) in the enforcement of the Controlled Substances Act of 1970. The USA PATRIOT Act increased the powers allotted to the FBI, especially in wiretapping and monitoring of Internet activity. One of the most controversial provisions of the act is the so-called sneak and peek provision, granting the FBI powers to search a house while the residents are away, and not requiring them to notify the residents for several weeks afterwards. Under the PATRIOT Act's provisions, the FBI also resumed inquiring into the library records[58] of those who are suspected of terrorism (something it had supposedly not done since the 1970s). In the early 1980s, Senate hearings were held to examine FBI undercover operations in the wake of the Abscam controversy, which had allegations of entrapment of elected officials. As a result, in following years a number of guidelines were issued to constrain FBI activities. A March 2007 report by the inspector general of the Justice Department described the FBI's "widespread and serious misuse" of national security letters, a form of administrative subpoena used to demand records and data pertaining to individuals. The report said that between 2003 and 2005, the FBI had issued more than 140,000 national security letters, many involving people with no obvious connections to terrorism.[59] Information obtained through an FBI investigation is presented to the appropriate U.S. Attorney or Department of Justice official, who decides if prosecution or other action is warranted. The FBI often works in conjunction with other federal agencies, including the U.S. Coast Guard (USCG) and U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) in seaport and airport security,[60] and the National Transportation Safety Board in investigating airplane crashes and other critical incidents. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) has nearly the same amount of investigative manpower as the FBI, and investigates the largest range of crimes. In the wake of the September 11 attacks, then–Attorney General Ashcroft assigned the FBI as the designated lead organization in terrorism investigations after the creation of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. HSI and the FBI are both integral members of the Joint Terrorism Task Force. Indian reservations FBI Director James Comey visiting the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation in North Dakota in June 2016. The federal government has the primary responsibility for investigating[61] and prosecuting serious crime on Indian reservations.[62] There are 565 federally recognized American Indian Tribes in the United States, and the FBI has federal law enforcement responsibility on nearly 200 Indian reservations. This federal jurisdiction is shared concurrently with the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Office of Justice Services (BIA-OJS). Located within the FBI's Criminal Investigative Division, the Indian Country Crimes Unit (ICCU) is responsible for developing and implementing strategies, programs, and policies to address identified crime problems in Indian Country (IC) for which the FBI has responsibility. — Overview, Indian Country Crime[63] The FBI does not specifically list crimes in Native American land as one of its priorities.[64] Often serious crimes have been either poorly investigated or prosecution has been declined. Tribal courts can impose sentences of up to three years, under certain restrictions.[65][66] Infrastructure The J. Edgar Hoover Building, FBI Headquarters FBI Mobile Command Center, Washington Field Office The FBI is headquartered at the J. Edgar Hoover Building in Washington, D.C., with 56 field offices[67] in major cities across the United States. The FBI also maintains over 400 resident agencies across the United States, as well as over 50 legal attachés at United States embassies and consulates. Many specialized FBI functions are located at facilities in Quantico, Virginia, as well as a "data campus" in Clarksburg, West Virginia, where 96 million sets of fingerprints "from across the United States are stored, along with others collected by American authorities from prisoners in Saudi Arabia and Yemen, Iraq and Afghanistan."[68] The FBI is in process of moving its Records Management Division, which processes Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests, to Winchester, Virginia.[69] According to The Washington Post, the FBI "is building a vast repository controlled by people who work in a top-secret vault on the fourth floor of the J. Edgar Hoover Building in Washington. This one stores the profiles of tens of thousands of Americans and legal residents who are not accused of any crime. What they have done is appear to be acting suspiciously to a town sheriff, a traffic cop or even a neighbor."[68] The FBI Laboratory, established with the formation of the BOI,[70] did not appear in the J. Edgar Hoover Building until its completion in 1974. The lab serves as the primary lab for most DNA, biological, and physical work. Public tours of FBI headquarters ran through the FBI laboratory workspace before the move to the J. Edgar Hoover Building. The services the lab conducts include Chemistry, Combined DNA Index System (CODIS), Computer Analysis and Response, DNA Analysis, Evidence Response, Explosives, Firearms and Tool marks, Forensic Audio, Forensic Video, Image Analysis, Forensic Science Research, Forensic Science Training, Hazardous Materials Response, Investigative and Prospective Graphics, Latent Prints, Materials Analysis, Questioned Documents, Racketeering Records, Special Photographic Analysis, Structural Design, and Trace Evidence.[71] The services of the FBI Laboratory are used by many state, local, and international agencies free of charge. The lab also maintains a second lab at the FBI Academy. The FBI Academy, located in Quantico, Virginia, is home to the communications and computer laboratory the FBI utilizes. It is also where new agents are sent for training to become FBI Special Agents. Going through the 21-week course is required for every Special Agent.[72] First opened for use in 1972, the facility located on 385 acres (1.6 km2) of woodland. The Academy trains state and local law enforcement agencies, which are invited to the law enforcement training center. The FBI units that reside at Quantico are the Field and Police Training Unit, Firearms Training Unit, Forensic Science Research and Training Center, Technology Services Unit (TSU), Investigative Training Unit, Law Enforcement Communication Unit, Leadership and Management Science Units (LSMU), Physical Training Unit, New Agents' Training Unit (NATU), Practical Applications Unit (PAU), the Investigative Computer Training Unit and the "College of Analytical Studies." The FBI Academy, located in Quantico, Virginia In 2000, the FBI began the Trilogy project to upgrade its outdated information technology (IT) infrastructure. This project, originally scheduled to take three years and cost around $380 million, ended up over budget and behind schedule.[73] Efforts to deploy modern computers and networking equipment were generally successful, but attempts to develop new investigation software, outsourced to Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC), were not. Virtual Case File, or VCF, as the software was known, was plagued by poorly defined goals, and repeated changes in management.[74] In January 2005, more than two years after the software was originally planned for completion, the FBI officially abandoned the project. At least $100 million (and much more by some estimates) was spent on the project, which never became operational. The FBI has been forced to continue using its decade-old Automated Case Support system, which IT experts consider woefully inadequate. In March 2005, the FBI announced it was beginning a new, more ambitious software project, code-named Sentinel, which they expected to complete by 2009.[75] The FBI Field Office in Chelsea, Massachusetts Carnivore was an electronic eavesdropping software system implemented by the FBI during the Clinton administration; it was designed to monitor email and electronic communications. After prolonged negative coverage in the press, the FBI changed the name of its system from "Carnivore" to "DCS1000." DCS is reported to stand for "Digital Collection System"; the system has the same functions as before. The Associated Press reported in mid-January 2005 that the FBI essentially abandoned the use of Carnivore in 2001, in favor of commercially available software, such as NarusInsight. The Criminal Justice Information Services (CJIS) Division[76] is located in Clarksburg, West Virginia. Organized beginning in 1991, the office opened in 1995 as the youngest agency division. The complex is the length of three football fields. It provides a main repository for information in various data systems. Under the roof of the CJIS are the programs for the National Crime Information Center (NCIC), Uniform Crime Reporting (UCR), Fingerprint Identification, Integrated Automated Fingerprint Identification System (IAFIS), NCIC 2000, and the National Incident-Based Reporting System (NIBRS). Many state and local agencies use these data systems as a source for their own investigations and contribute to the database using secure communications. FBI provides these tools of sophisticated identification and information services to local, state, federal, and international law enforcement agencies. FBI is in charge of National Virtual Translation Center, which provides "timely and accurate translations of foreign intelligence for all elements of the Intelligence Community."[77] Personnel An FBI Evidence Response Team Agents in training on the FBI Academy firing range As of 31 December 2009[update], the FBI had a total of 33,852 employees. That includes 13,412 special agents and 20,420 support professionals, such as intelligence analysts, language specialists, scientists, information technology specialists, and other professionals.[78] The Officer Down Memorial Page provides the biographies of 69 FBI agents who have died in the line of duty from 1925 to July 2017.[79] Hiring process To apply to become an FBI agent, one must be between the ages of 23 and 37. Due to the decision in Robert P. Isabella v. Department of State and Office of Personnel Management, 2008 M.S.P.B. 146, preference-eligible veterans may apply after age 37. In 2009, the Office of Personnel Management issued implementation guidance on the Isabella decision.[80] The applicant must also hold U.S. citizenship, be of high moral character, have a clean record, and hold at least a four-year bachelor's degree. At least three years of professional work experience prior to application is also required. All FBI employees require a Top Secret (TS) security clearance, and in many instances, employees need a TS/SCI (Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented Information) clearance.[81] To obtain a security clearance, all potential FBI personnel must pass a series of Single Scope Background Investigations (SSBI), which are conducted by the Office of Personnel Management.[82] Special agent candidates also have to pass a Physical Fitness Test (PFT), which includes a 300-meter run, one-minute sit-ups, maximum push-ups, and a 1.5-mile (2.4 km) run. Personnel must pass a polygraph test with questions including possible drug use.[83] Applicants who fail polygraphs may not gain employment with the FBI.[84] Up until 1975, the FBI had a minimum height requirement of 5 feet 7 inches (170 cm).[85] BOI and FBI directors Main article: Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation FBI Directors are appointed (nominated) by the President of the United States and must be confirmed by the United States Senate to serve a term of office of ten years, subject to resignation or removal by the President at his/her discretion before their term ends. Additional terms are allowed following the same procedure J. Edgar Hoover, appointed by President Calvin Coolidge in 1924, was by far the longest-serving director, serving until his death in 1972. In 1968, Congress passed legislation, as part of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, requiring Senate confirmation of appointments of future Directors.[86] As the incumbent, this legislation did not apply to Hoover. The last FBI Director was Andrew McCabe. The current FBI Director is Christopher A. Wray appointed by President Donald Trump. The FBI director is responsible for the day-to-day operations at the FBI. Along with the Deputy Director, the director makes sure cases and operations are handled correctly. The director also is in charge of making sure the leadership in any one of the FBI field offices is manned with qualified agents. Before the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act was passed in the wake of the September 11 attacks, the FBI director would directly brief the President of the United States on any issues that arise from within the FBI. Since then, the director now reports to the Director of National Intelligence (DNI), who in turn reports to the President. Firearms A Glock 22 pistol in .40 S&W caliber Upon qualification, an FBI special agent is issued a full-size Glock 22 or compact Glock 23 semi-automatic pistol, both of which are chambered in the .40 S&W cartridge. In May 1997, the FBI officially adopted the Glock, in .40 S&W, for general agent use, and first issued it to New Agent Class 98-1 in October 1997. At present, the Glock 23 "FG&R" (finger groove and rail; either 3rd generation or "Gen4") is the issue sidearm.[87] New agents are issued firearms, on which they must qualify, on successful completion of their training at the FBI Academy. The Glock 26 (subcompact 9mm Parabellum), Glock 23 and Glock 27 (.40 S&W compact and subcompact, respectively) are authorized as secondary weapons. Special agents are also authorized to purchase and qualify with the Glock 21 in .45 ACP.[88] Special agents of the FBI Hostage Rescue Team (HRT) and regional SWAT teams are issued the Springfield Armory Professional Model 1911 pistol in .45 ACP.[89][90][91] In June 2016, the FBI awarded Glock a contract for new handguns. Unlike the currently issued .40 S&W chambered Glock pistols, the new Glocks will be chambered for 9mm Parabellum. The contract is for the full-size Glock 17M and the compact Glock 19M. The "M" means the Glocks have been modified to meet government standards specified by a 2015 government request for proposal.[92][93][94][95] Publications The FBI Law Enforcement Bulletin is published monthly by the FBI Law Enforcement Communication Unit,[96] with articles of interest to state and local law enforcement personnel. First published in 1932 as Fugitives Wanted by Police,[97] the FBI Law Bulletin covers topics including law enforcement technology and issues, such as crime mapping and use of force, as well as recent criminal justice research, and ViCAP alerts, on wanted suspects and key cases. The FBI also publishes some reports for both law enforcement personnel as well as regular citizens covering topics including law enforcement, terrorism, cybercrime, white-collar crime, violent crime, and statistics.[98] However, the vast majority of federal government publications covering these topics are published by the Office of Justice Programs agencies of the United States Department of Justice, and disseminated through the National Criminal Justice Reference Service. Crime statistics In the 1920s, the FBI began issuing crime reports by gathering numbers from local police departments.[99] Due to limitations of this system found during the 1960s and 1970s—victims often simply did not report crimes to the police in the first place—the Department of Justice developed an alternative method of tallying crime, the victimization survey.[99] Uniform Crime Reports Main article: Uniform Crime Reports The Uniform Crime Reports (UCR) compile data from over 17,000 law enforcement agencies across the country. They provide detailed data regarding the volume of crimes to include arrest, clearance (or closing a case), and law enforcement officer information. The UCR focuses its data collection on violent crimes, hate crimes, and property crimes.[98] Created in the 1920s, the UCR system has not proven to be as uniform as its name implies. The UCR data only reflect the most serious offense in the case of connected crimes and has a very restrictive definition of rape. Since about 93% of the data submitted to the FBI is in this format, the UCR stands out as the publication of choice as most states require law enforcement agencies to submit this data. Preliminary Annual Uniform Crime Report for 2006 was released on June 4, 2006. The report shows violent crime offenses rose 1.3%, but the number of property crime offenses decreased 2.9% compared to 2005.[100] National Incident-Based Reporting System Main article: National Incident-Based Reporting System The National Incident-Based Reporting System (NIBRS) crime statistics system aims to address limitations inherent in UCR data. The system is used by law enforcement agencies in the United States for collecting and reporting data on crimes. Local, state, and federal agencies generate NIBRS data from their records management systems. Data is collected on every incident and arrest in the Group A offense category. The Group A offenses are 46 specific crimes grouped in 22 offense categories. Specific facts about these offenses are gathered and reported in the NIBRS system. In addition to the Group A offenses, eleven Group B offenses are reported with only the arrest information. The NIBRS system is in greater detail than the summary-based UCR system. As of 2004[update], 5,271 law enforcement agencies submitted NIBRS data. That amount represents 20% of the United States population and 16% of the crime statistics data collected by the FBI. eGuardian eGuardian is the name of an FBI system, launched in January 2009, to share tips about possible terror threats with local police agencies. The program aims to get law enforcement at all levels sharing data quickly about suspicious activity and people.[101] eGuardian enables near real-time sharing and tracking of terror information and suspicious activities with local, state, tribal, and federal agencies. The eGuardian system is a spin-off of a similar but classified tool called Guardian that has been used inside the FBI, and shared with vetted partners since 2005.[102] Controversies This section should include a summary of List of FBI controversies. See Wikipedia:Summary style for information on how to incorporate it into this article's main text. (January 2019) Main article: List of FBI controversies See also: White House FBI files controversy, Counter Intelligence Program, 1996 United States campaign finance controversy, and Hillary Clinton email controversy Throughout its history, the FBI has been the subject of many controversies, both at home and abroad. Media portrayal Main article: FBI portrayal in media The popular TV series The X-Files depicts the fictional FBI Special Agents Dana Scully (Gillian Anderson) and Fox Mulder (David Duchovny) who investigate paranormal phenomena. The FBI has been frequently depicted in popular media since the 1930s. The bureau has participated to varying degrees, which has ranged from direct involvement in the creative process of film or TV series development, to providing consultation on operations and closed cases.[103] A few of the notable portrayals of the FBI on television are the series The X-Files, which started in 1993 and concluded its eleventh season in early 2018, and concerned investigations into paranormal phenomena by five fictional Special Agents, and the fictional Counter Terrorist Unit (CTU) agency in the TV drama 24, which is patterned after the FBI Counterterrorism Division. The 1991 movie Point Break depicts an undercover FBI agent who infiltrated a gang of bank robbers. The 1997 movie Donnie Brasco is based on the true story of undercover FBI agent Joseph D. Pistone infiltrating the Mafia. The 2015 TV series Quantico, titled after the location of the Bureau's training facility, deals with Probationary and Special Agents, not all of whom, within the show's format, may be fully reliable or even trustworthy. Notable FBI personnel Edwin Atherton Ed Bethune James Comey Alaska P. Davidson Sibel Edmonds James R. Fitzgerald W. Mark Felt J. Edgar Hoover Robert Hanssen Lon Horiuchi John McClurg Richard Miller Robert Mueller Eric O'Neill John P. O'Neill Joseph D. Pistone Melvin Purvis Coleen Rowley Ali Soufan Sue Thomas Clyde Tolson Frederic Whitehurst See also Law enforcement in the United States Federal Law Enforcement agencies Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Diplomatic Security Service (DSS) Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) United States Marshals Service (USMS) United States Secret Service (USSS) State and local law enforcement agencies in the US State Bureaus of Investigation Additional links United States portal Society of Former Special Agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation FBI Victims Identification Project History of espionage FBI Honorary Medals Inspector References ^ "Quick Facts". Federal Bureau of Investigation. Archived from the original on December 6, 2014. Retrieved December 17, 2014. ^ a b "Mission & Priorities". Federal Bureau of Investigation. Archived from the original on July 11, 2019. Retrieved July 29, 2019. ^ "Our Strength Lies in Who We Are". intelligence.gov. Archived from the original on August 10, 2014. Retrieved August 4, 2014. ^ "How does the FBI differ from the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF)?". Federal Bureau of Investigation. Archived from the original on September 4, 2017. Retrieved November 2, 2017. ^ a b "Federal Bureau of Investigation – Quick Facts". Federal Bureau of Investigation. Archived from the original on October 17, 2011. ^ Statement Before the House Appropriations Committee, Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Archived June 23, 2016, at the Wayback Machine, Federal Bureau of Investigation, March 26, 2014 ^ FBI gets a broader role in coordinating domestic intelligence activities Archived July 16, 2017, at the Wayback Machine, Washington Post, June 19, 2012 ^ Overview of the Legal Attaché Program Archived March 13, 2016, at the Wayback Machine, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Retrieved: March 25, 2015 ^ Spies Clash as FBI Joins CIA Overseas: Sources Talk of Communication Problem in Terrorism Role Archived April 18, 2015, at the Wayback Machine, Associated Press via NBC News, February 15, 2005 ^ https://archives.fbi.gov/archives/news/stories/2006/march/fbiname_022406 ^ "FBI- Quick Facts". Federal Bureau of Investigation. Archived from the original on April 12, 2015. Retrieved April 19, 2015. ^ a b c d Weiner, Tim (2012). "Revolution". Enemies a history of the FBI (1 ed.). New York: Random House. ISBN 978-0-679-64389-0. ^ Findlay, James G. (November 19, 1943). "Memorandum for the Director: Re: Early History of the Bureau of Investigation, United States Department of Justice". Historical Documents from the Bureau's Founding. Los Angeles, CA: Federal Bureau of Investigation. Archived from the original on July 3, 2012. Retrieved August 14, 2012. ^ Bonaparte, Charles Joseph. "Annual Report of the Attorney General of the United States, 1908, p.7". Historical Documents from the Bureau's Founding. Federal Bureau of Investigation. Archived from the original on May 10, 2012. Retrieved August 14, 2012. In my last annual report I called attention to the fact that this department was obliged to call upon the Treasury Department for detective service, and had, in fact, no permanent executive force directly under its orders. Through the prohibition of its further use of the Secret Service force, contained in the Sundry Civil Appropriation Act, approved May 27, 1908, it became necessary for the department to organize a small force of special agents of its own. Although such action was involuntary on the part of this department, the consequences of the innovation have been, on the whole, moderately satisfactory. The Special Agents, placed as they are under the direct orders of the Chief Examiner, who receives from them daily reports and summarizes these each day to the Attorney General, are directly controlled by this department, and the Attorney General knows or ought to know, at all times what they are doing and at what cost. ^ https://history.com/this-day-in-history/fbi-founded ^ a b "Timeline of FBI History". Federal Bureau of Investigation. Archived from the original on March 16, 2015. Retrieved March 20, 2015. ^ Langeluttig, Albert (1927). The Department of Justice of the United States. Johns Hopkins Press. pp. 9–14. ^ a b c d e Greenberg, David (October 22, 2001). "Civil Rights: Let 'Em Wiretap!". History News Network. Archived from the original on March 1, 2011. Retrieved February 15, 2011. ^ Benson, Robert L. "The Venona Story". National Security Agency. Archived from the original on June 14, 2006. Retrieved June 18, 2006. ^ Romerstein, Herbert, Eric Breindel (2001). The Venona Secrets, Exposing Soviet Espionage and America's Traitors. Regnery Publishing, Inc. p. 209. ISBN 0-89526-225-8.CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link) ^ Kashima, Tetsuden. "Custodial detention / A-B-C list". Densho Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on October 20, 2014. Retrieved August 21, 2014. ^ a b c Niiya, Brian. "Federal Bureau of Investigation". Densho Encyclopledia. Archived from the original on October 20, 2014. Retrieved August 21, 2014. [better source needed] ^ "About the Incarceration". Densho Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on August 13, 2014. Retrieved August 21, 2014. ^ "J. Edgar Hoover". Archived from the original on November 6, 2014. ^ FBI and Homosexuality: 1950-1959 Archived December 4, 2017, at the Wayback Machine ^ FBI and Homosexuality: 1970-1979 Archived June 5, 2018, at the Wayback Machine ^ FBI and Homosexuality: 2010-2019 Archived December 4, 2017, at the Wayback Machine ^ David T. Beito and Linda Royster Beito, Black Maverick: T.R.M. Howard's Fight for Civil Rights and Economic Power (Urbana: University of Illinois Press, 2009), 148, 154–59. ^ Cassidy, Mike M. (May 26, 1999). "A Short History of FBI COINTELPRO". Monitor.net. Archived from the original on January 18, 2000. Retrieved June 6, 2006. ^ Jalon, Allan M. (April 8, 2006). "A Break-In to End All Break-Ins". Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on June 20, 2006. Retrieved June 6, 2006. ^ Gage, Beverly (November 11, 2014). "What an Uncensored Letter to M.L.K. Reveals". The New York Times. Archived from the original on January 7, 2015. Retrieved January 9, 2015. ^ Taylor Branch, Pillar of Fire: America in the King Years 1963-1965 (Simon and Schuster, 1999), p. 524-529 ^ Adams, Cecil M. (May 2, 2003). "Was Martin Luther King, Jr. a plagiarist?". Washington Post. Archived from the original on July 18, 2011. Retrieved June 6, 2006. ^ Taylor Branch, Pillar of Fire: America in the King Years 1963-1965 (Simon and Schuster, 1999) p. 527-529. ^ a b c d Frum, David (2000). How We Got Here: The '70s. New York, New York: Basic Books. p. 40. ISBN 0-465-04195-7. ^ "Postwar America: 1945–1960s". Federal Bureau of Investigation. Archived from the original on January 6, 2015. ^ "5 things you might not know about JFK's assassination". CNN.com. Archived from the original on November 16, 2015. Retrieved November 11, 2015. ^ "Public Law 89-141 - Chapter 84.– PRESIDENTIAL ASSASSINATION, KIDNAPPING, AND ASSAULT" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on September 22, 2017. Retrieved September 20, 2017. ^ "18 U.S. Code Chapter 84 – PRESIDENTIAL AND PRESIDENTIAL STAFF ASSASSINATION, KIDNAPPING, AND ASSAULT". Archived from the original on March 3, 2016. ^ "Using Intel to Stop the Mob, Part 2" Archived June 16, 2010, at the Wayback Machine. Retrieved February 12, 2010. ^ a b Shelley Murphy (July 27, 2007). "Evidence Of Injustice". Boston Globe. Archived from the original on July 26, 2008. Retrieved November 22, 2007. ^ "U.S. Must Pay Out $100 Million for Wrongful FBI Conviction". Reuters. July 27, 2007. Archived from the original on July 5, 2008. Retrieved November 22, 2007. ^ "Rise in International Crime". Federal Bureau of Investigation. Archived from the original on January 6, 2015. ^ a b "End of the Cold War". Federal Bureau of Investigation. Archived from the original on January 6, 2015. ^ Anytime, Anywhere: The Unofficial History of the FBI Hostage Rescue Team, Page 10/25 ^ "Rise of a Wired World". Federal Bureau of Investigation. Archived from the original on January 6, 2015. ^ "Richard Jewell v. NBC, and other Richard Jewell cases". Media Libel. Archived from the original on May 27, 2006. Retrieved June 6, 2006. ^ "Change of Mandate". Federal Bureau of Investigation. Archived from the original on January 6, 2015. ^ Seper, Jerry. "Osama access to state secrets helped 9/11". Computer Crime Research Center. Archived from the original on June 8, 2006. Retrieved June 6, 2006. ^ Shovelan, John (June 23, 2004). "9/11 Commission finds 'deep institutional failings'". ABC Au. Archived from the original on February 21, 2006. Retrieved June 6, 2006. ^ "Ex-FBI Chief On Clinton's Scandals". CBS News. October 6, 2004. Archived from the original on June 14, 2006. Retrieved June 6, 2006. ^ Zegart, Amy (September 1, 2007). "Spying Blind". Princeton University Press. Archived from the original on October 13, 2007. Retrieved July 8, 2007. ^ Zegart, Amy (July 8, 2007). "Our Clueless Intelligence System". Washington Post. Archived from the original on July 13, 2007. Retrieved July 8, 2007. ^ "FBI Laboratory Announces Discontinuation of Bullet Lead Examinations". fbi.gov. FBI National Press Office. Archived from the original on December 8, 2014. Retrieved December 6, 2014. ^ "Evidence Of Injustice". CBS News. November 18, 2007. Archived from the original on November 20, 2007. Retrieved November 22, 2007. ^ "fbi.gov". fbi.gov. Archived from the original on February 16, 2011. Retrieved March 3, 2012. ^ "US CODE: Title 28,533. Investigative and other officials; appointment". Cornell Law School. Retrieved February 15, 2011. ^ Egelko, Bob; Maria Alicia Gaura (March 10, 2003). "Libraries post Patriot Act warnings: Santa Cruz branches tell patrons that FBI may spy on them". San Francisco Chronicle. Archived from the original on April 29, 2011. Retrieved February 15, 2011. ^ Jeffrey Rosen (April 15, 2007). "Who's Watching the F.B.I.?". The New York Times Magazine. Archived from the original on May 12, 2011. Retrieved February 15, 2011. ^ "The Federal Bureau of Investigation's Efforts to Protect the Nation's Seaports" (PDF). U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Inspector General. March 2006. Archived (PDF) from the original on October 1, 2009. Retrieved February 15, 2011. ^ "Indian Country Crime" Archived August 8, 2010, at the Wayback Machine FBI website, accessed August 10, 2010 ^ "Native Americans in South Dakota: An Erosion of Confidence in the Justice System". Usccr.gov. Archived from the original on March 6, 2012. Retrieved March 3, 2012. ^ "Overview, Indian Country Crime". Federal Bureau of Investigation. Archived from the original on January 20, 2013. Retrieved October 26, 2012. ^ FBI "Facts and Figures" Archived September 22, 2010, at the Wayback Machine See prominently displayed list of priorities, accessed August 10, 2010 ^ Michael Riley, "Expansion of tribal courts' authority passes Senate" Archived March 4, 2016, at the Wayback Machine, The Denver Post. Posted: 25 June 2010 01:00:00 am MDT Updated: 25 June 2010 02:13:47 am MDT. Accessed June 25, 2010. ^ Michael Riley, "President Obama signs tribal-justice changes" Archived March 4, 2016, at the Wayback Machine, The Denver Post, Posted: 30 July 2010 01:00:00 am MDT, Updated: 30 July 2010 06:00:20 am MDT, accessed July 30, 2010. ^ "Federal Bureau of Investigation – Field Divisions". Federal Bureau of Investigation. Archived from the original on August 15, 2009. ^ a b Priest, Dana and Arkin, William (December 2010) Monitoring America Archived December 22, 2010, at the Wayback Machine, Washington Post ^ Reid, Sarah A. (July 26, 2006). "One of the biggest things the FBI has ever done". The Winchester Star. Archived from the original on February 23, 2007. ^ "FBI Laboratory History". Federal Bureau of Investigation. Archived from the original on January 3, 2015. ^ "FBI Laboratory Services". Federal Bureau of Investigation. Archived from the original on October 16, 2007. ^ "Special Agent Career Path Program". Federal Bureau of Investigation. Archived from the original on July 2, 2007. ^ Sherman, Mark. "Lawmakers criticize FBI director's expensive project". Newszine. Archived from the original on August 30, 2006. Retrieved June 6, 2006. ^ Gerin, Roseanne (January 14, 2005). "SAIC rejects Trilogy criticism". Washington Technology. Archived from the original on December 2, 2008. Retrieved June 6, 2006. ^ Arnone, Michael (June 25, 2005). "Senators seek to fast track FBI's Sentinel". FCW.Com. Archived from the original on October 25, 2006. Retrieved June 6, 2006. ^ "The CJIS Mission". Federal Bureau of Investigation. Archived from the original on September 16, 2008. ^ "Lost in Translation? Not at the National Virtual Translation Center". Federal Bureau of Investigation. Archived from the original on March 13, 2016. ^ "Federal Bureau of Investigation – About Us – Quick Facts". Archived from the original on October 17, 2011. ^ The Officer Down Memorial Page. "United States Department of Justice – Federal Bureau of Investigation Washington, DC". Archived from the original on August 22, 2010. ^ CHCOC Archived August 8, 2012, at the Wayback Machine. Chcoc.gov. Retrieved on July 23, 2013. ^ "Federal Bureau of Investigation Jobs". Federal Bureau of Investigation. Archived from the original on July 2, 2007. ^ "Review of the Security and Emergency Planning Staff's Management of Background Investigations". U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Inspector General. September 2005. Archived from the original on August 16, 2006. ^ "FAQ-FBI Jobs". Federal Bureau of Investigation. Archived from the original on October 18, 2012. ^ Taylor, Marisa. "FBI turns away many applicants who fail lie-detector tests Archived 2013-07-09 at the Wayback Machine." The McClatchy Company. May 20, 2013. Retrieved on July 25, 2013. ^ "FBI to Allow Agents to Be Short" (PDF). San Francisco Chronicle/Associated Press. June 25, 1975. Archived (PDF) from the original on October 20, 2016. ^ Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act Pub.L. 90–351, June 19, 1968, 82 Stat. 197, sec.1101 ^ Vanderpool, Bill (August 22, 2011). "A History of FBI Handguns". American Rifleman. National Rifle Association. Archived from the original on February 1, 2017. ^ Vanderpool, Bill (August 22, 2011). "A History of FBI Handguns". American Rifleman. National Rifle Association. Archived from the original on February 1, 2017. The only personally owned handguns now on the approved list are the Glock 21 (full-size .45 ACP), the Glock 26 (sub-compact 9 mm) and the 27 (sub-compact .40 S&W). ^ Vanderpool, Bill (August 22, 2011). "A History of FBI Handguns". American Rifleman. National Rifle Association. Archived from the original on February 1, 2017. Also in the ’80s, HRT adopted the Browning Hi-Power. The first Hi-Powers were customized by Wayne Novak and later ones by the FBI gunsmiths at Quantico. They were popular with the "super SWAT" guys, and several hesitated to give them up when they were replaced by .45 ACP single-action pistols, the first ones built by Les Baer, which used high-capacity Para Ordnance frames. Later, Springfield Armory’s "Bureau Model" replaced the Baer guns. Field SWAT teams were also issued .45s, and most still use them. ^ "OPERATOR®, TACTICAL GRAY CONFIGURATION ADDS NEW COLOR AND ADJUSTABLE COMBAT SIGHTS". Springfield Armory. January 19, 2017. Archived from the original on September 24, 2017. Originally developed as a consumer-friendly option for the FBI contract Professional Model 1911, the TRP™ family provides high-end custom shop features in a production class pistol. ^ "RO® ELITE SERIES". Springfield Armory. Archived from the original on September 23, 2017. Every new RO Elite series pistol is clad in the same Black-T® treatment specified on Springfield Armory 1911s built for the FBI’s regional SWAT and Hostage Rescue Teams. ^ Smith, Aaron (June 30, 2016). "Glock wins $85 million FBI contract". CNN. Archived from the original on September 10, 2016. ^ "F.B.I. Awards Glock New Duty Pistol Contract!". Blue Sheepdog. June 30, 2016. Archived from the original on March 6, 2017. ^ Terrill, Daniel (June 30, 2016). "FBI goes back to 9mm with Glock". Guns.com. Archived from the original on March 6, 2017. ^ "FBI Chooses 9mm Glocks for New Service Pistols". Outdoor Hub. Archived from the original on March 6, 2017. ^ "Law Enforcement Communication Unit". Federal Bureau of Investigation. Archived from the original on April 17, 2009. ^ "History of the FBI, The New Deal: 1933 – Late 1930s". Federal Bureau of Investigation. Archived from the original on January 6, 2015. ^ a b "Federal Bureau of Investigation – Reports & Publications". Federal Bureau of Investigation. Archived from the original on March 26, 2016. ^ a b Frum, David (2000). How We Got Here: The '70s. New York, New York: Basic Books. p. 12. ISBN 0-465-04195-7. ^ "Preliminary Crime Statistics for 2006". Federal Bureau of Investigation. Archived from the original on April 11, 2010. ^ "FBI Launches Tip-Sharing For Inauguration". CBS News. January 13, 2009. Archived from the original on January 25, 2009. Retrieved January 13, 2009. ^ "eGuardian – FBI Shares Threat Info With Local Police Agencies". National Terror Alert Response Center. January 13, 2009. Archived from the original on January 14, 2010. Retrieved January 13, 2009. ^ Powers, Richard Gid (1983). G-Men: Hoover's FBI in American Popular Culture. Carbondale, IL: Southern Illinois University Press. ISBN 0-8093-1096-1. Further reading Charles, Douglas M. (2007). J. Edgar Hoover and the Anti-interventionists: FBI Political Surveillance and the Rise of the Domestic Security State, 1939–1945. Columbus, Ohio: The Ohio State University Press. ISBN 978-0-8142-1061-1. Graves, Melissa. "FBI Historiography: From Leader to Organisation" in Christopher R. Moran, Christopher J. Murphy, eds. Intelligence Studies in Britain and the US: Historiography since 1945 (Edinburgh UP, 2013) pp. 129–145. online Jeffreys-Jones, Rhodri. The FBI: A History (Yale University Press, 2007). Jeffreys-Jones, Rhodri. "The Historiography of the FBI," in Loch Johnson, ed., A Handbook of Intelligence (Routledge, 2006). pp. 39–51. Jeffreys-Jones, Rhodri. "Forcing Out Unwanted FBI Directors: A Brief, Messy History", Vox, (23 May 2017). online Jeffreys-Jones, Rhodri. "A brief history of the FBI’s meddling in US politics" Vox, (5 November 2016) online Kessler, Ronald (1993). The FBI: Inside the World's Most Powerful Law Enforcement Agency. Pocket Books Publications. ISBN 978-0-671-78657-1. Powers, Richard Gid (1983). G-Men, Hoover's FBI in American Popular Culture. Southern Illinois University Press. ISBN 978-0-8093-1096-8. Sullivan, William (1979). The Bureau: My Thirty Years in Hoover's FBI. Norton. ISBN 978-0-393-01236-1. Theoharis, Athan G.; John Stuart Cox (1988). The Boss: J. Edgar Hoover and the Great American Inquisition. Temple University Press. ISBN 978-0-87722-532-4. Theoharis, Athan G.; Tony G. Poveda; Susan Rosenfeld; Richard Gid Powers (2000). The FBI: A Comprehensive Reference Guide. Checkmark Books. ISBN 978-0-8160-4228-9. Theoharis, Athan G. (2004). The FBI and American Democracy: A Brief Critical History. Kansas: University Press. ISBN 978-0-7006-1345-8. Thomas, William H., Jr. (2008). Unsafe for Democracy: World War I and the U.S. Justice Department's Covert Campaign to Suppress Dissent. Madison: University of Wisconsin Press. ISBN 978-0-299-22890-3. Tonry, Michael (ed.) (2000). The Handbook of Crime & Punishment. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-514060-6.CS1 maint: extra text: authors list (link) Trahair, Richard C. S. (2004). Encyclopedia of Cold War Espionage, Spies, and Secret Operations. Ballentine: Greenwood Press. ISBN 978-0-313-31955-6. Vanderpool, Bill (August 22, 2011). "A History of FBI Handguns". American Rifleman. Retrieved April 3, 2014. Weiner, Tim (2012). Enemies. A History of the FBI. Random House. ISBN 978-1-4000-6748-0. Williams, David (1981). "The Bureau of Investigation and its Critics, 1919–1921: the Origins of Federal Political Surveillance". Journal of American History. Organization of American Historians. 68 (3): 560–579. doi:10.2307/1901939. JSTOR 1901939. FBI—The Year in Review, Part 1, Part 2 (2013) Church Committee Report, Vol. 6, "Federal Bureau of Investigation." 1975 congressional inquiry into American intelligence operations. External links Wikimedia Commons has media related to Federal Bureau of Investigation. Federal Bureau of Investigation from the Federation of American Scientists The Vault, FBI electronic reading room (launched April 2011) Works by Federal Bureau of Investigation at Project Gutenberg Works by Federal Bureau of Investigation at LibriVox (public domain audiobooks) FBI Collection at Internet Archive, files on over 1,100 subjects William H. Thomas, Jr.: Bureau of Investigation, in: 1914-1918-online. International Encyclopedia of the First World War. FBI coverage at C-SPAN v t e Federal Bureau of Investigation Field offices Atlanta Buffalo Cleveland Tampa Organization Criminal, Cyber, Response, and Services Branch Human Resources Branch Information and Technology Branch National Security Branch Science and Technology Branch Academy Behavioral Analysis Unit Behavioral Science Unit Communications Exploitation Section Criminal Justice Information Services Division Counterterrorism Division Criminal Investigative Division Crisis Negotiation Unit Critical Incident Response Group FBI Police FBI Special Weapons and Tactics Teams (SWAT) Hazardous Devices School Hostage Rescue Team (HRT) Joint Terrorism Task Force Laboratory Division National Academy National Center for the Analysis of Violent Crime National Crime Information Center Office of Professional Responsibility Scientific Working Group (Imaging Technology Bloodstain Pattern Analysis) Violent Criminal Apprehension Program Technology Airtel Bureaupedia Carnivore Combined DNA Index System (CODIS) Computer and Internet Protocol Address Verifier Integrated Automated Fingerprint Identification System (IAFIS) Law Enforcement National Data Exchange (N-DEx) National Incident-Based Reporting System Ranks Director Deputy Director Special agent Methods and activities Abscam Bridgman Convention COINTELPRO FBI method of profiling Rod Blagojevich corruption charges FBI files on Elvis Presley FBI Miami shootout FBI Silvermaster File FBI Special Advisor Program FBI Victims Identification Project Guardian High-Value Interrogation Group Lindbergh kidnapping Ruby Ridge Special Intelligence Service U.S. v. Scheinberg et al. (10 Cr. 336) Waco siege People Harry "Skip" Brandon Delf A. 'Jelly' Bryce Sibel Edmonds Mark Felt "Deep Throat" Helen Gandy Joseph L. Gormley Wesley Grapp David Icove Peter Strzok Clyde Tolson Joseph D. Pistone Buildings FBI Headquarters Child Abduction and Serial Murder Center Related FBI portrayal in media G-Man Junior G-Men FBI–Apple encryption dispute FBI Law Enforcement Bulletin v t e Agencies under the United States Department of Justice Headquarters: Robert F. Kennedy Department of Justice Building William Barr, Attorney General Jeffrey Rosen, Deputy Attorney General Deputy Attorney General Justice Management Division Criminal Division National Security Division Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives Drug Enforcement Administration Federal Bureau of Investigation Bureau of Prisons (National Institute of Corrections * (Federal Prison Industries) United States Marshals Service Executive Office for Immigration Review (Board of Immigration Appeals) Office of the Pardon Attorney Office of Professional Responsibility Office of Tribal Justice Professional Responsibility Advisory Office Executive Office for Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Forces Executive Office for United States Attorneys United States Attorneys' Offices INTERPOL Washington--United States National Central Bureau United States Parole Commission Office of Legal Counsel Office of Legal Policy Office of Legislative Affairs Office of Public Affairs Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General Special Counsel's Office Associate Attorney General Office of Justice Programs Office on Violence Against Women Office of Community Oriented Policing Services Office of Information Policy Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States Antitrust Division Civil Division Civil Rights Division Environment and Natural Resources Division Tax Division Executive Office for United States Trustees Community Relations Service Assistant Attorneys General Antitrust Division Civil Division Civil Rights Division Criminal Division National Security Division Environment and Natural Resources Division Justice Management Division Tax Division Office of Legal Counsel Office of Legal Policy Office of Legislative Affairs Office of Justice Programs Solicitor General v t e Federal law enforcement agencies of the United States Department of Commerce Office of Export Enforcement National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration - Fisheries: Office for Law Enforcement Office of Security Department of Defense Defense Criminal Investigative Service Department of Defense police Defense Logistics Agency Police Pentagon Force Protection Agency (Pentagon Police) National Security Agency Police Army Department Intelligence and Security Command Criminal Investigation Command US Army Military Police Corps Army Department Police Corrections Command Navy Department Naval Criminal Investigative Service Marine Corps Criminal Investigation Division Master-at-Arms Marine Corps Police Naval Academy Police Air Force Department Office of Special Investigations Security Forces Air Force Police Department of Health and Human Services United States Food and Drug Administration (Office of Criminal Investigations) National Institutes of Health Police Department of Homeland Security Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services United States Coast Guard Investigative Service Coast Guard Police Customs and Border Protection Federal Protective Service Immigration and Customs Enforcement United States Secret Service Transportation Security Administration Office of Law Enforcement/Federal Air Marshal Service Department of the Interior Bureau of Indian Affairs Police Bureau of Land Management: Office of Law Enforcement Hoover Dam Police National Park Service Rangers United States Park Police Fish and Wildlife Service: Office of Law Enforcement National Wildlife Refuge System: Division of Refuge Law Enforcement Department of Justice Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives Drug Enforcement Administration Federal Bureau of Investigation FBI Police Federal Bureau of Prisons United States Marshals Service Department of State Bureau of Diplomatic Security Diplomatic Security Service Office of Foreign Missions Department of the Treasury Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau Bureau of Engraving and Printing Police Financial Crimes Enforcement Network Internal Revenue Service, Criminal Investigation United States Mint Police Other executive department agencies Agriculture: US Forest Service: Law Enforcement & Investigations Energy: Office of Secure Transportation Transportation: United States Merchant Marine Academy Department of Public Safety Veterans Affairs: Department of Veterans Affairs Police United States Congress Sergeant at Arms of the House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms of the Senate United States Capitol Police Government Printing Office Police Judicial branch U.S. Probation and Pretrial Services System Marshal of the United States Supreme Court (Supreme Court Police) Other federal law enforcement agencies Amtrak Police Department Central Intelligence Agency: Security Protective Service Environmental Protection Agency: Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance Federal Reserve Police Postal Inspection Service (U.S. Postal Police) Smithsonian Institution Office of Protection Services (National Zoological Park Police) v t e United States Intelligence Community Intelligence Community Defense Defense Intelligence Agency Defense Clandestine Service Defense Debriefing Service Defense Attaché System National Intelligence University Missile and Space Intelligence Center National Center for Medical Intelligence Joint Functional Component Command for Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency National Reconnaissance Office National Security Agency Central Security Service Special Collection Service Armed Forces Army Intelligence and Security Command Marine Corps Intelligence Office of Naval Intelligence Twenty-Fifth Air Force Coast Guard Intelligence (Homeland Security) Civilian Bureau of Intelligence and Research (State) Central Intelligence Agency Directorate of Operations Special Activities Division Open Source Center Directorate of Science and Technology CIA University DEA Office of National Security Intelligence (Justice) FBI Intelligence Branch (Justice) Office of Intelligence and Analysis (Homeland Security) Office of Intelligence and Analysis (Treasury) Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence (Energy) Director of National Intelligence Director of National Intelligence National Counterterrorism Center National Counterproliferation Center National Counterintelligence and Security Center Cyber Threat Intelligence Integration Center National Intelligence Council Intelligence Advanced Research Projects Activity Joint Intelligence Community Council Chief Information Officer Executive Office of the President National Security Advisor National Security Council President's Intelligence Advisory Board Homeland Security Council Homeland Security Advisor President's Daily Brief Other Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency National Security Division (Justice) Army Intelligence Support Activity Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communications System Intellipedia Oversight Senate Intelligence Committee House Intelligence Committee Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board Office of Management and Budget Defunct Contingency Fund for Foreign Intercourse Counterintelligence Field Activity Military Information Division Military Intelligence Division Military Intelligence Service Office of Strategic Services Office of Special Plans Strategic Support Branch v t e Patriot Act Titles I · II · III · IV · V · VI · VII · VIII · IX · X (History) Acts modified Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 Electronic Communications Privacy Act Computer Fraud and Abuse Act Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act Money Laundering Control Act Bank Secrecy Act Right to Financial Privacy Act Fair Credit Reporting Act Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 Victims of Crime Act of 1984 Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act People George W. Bush John Ashcroft Alberto Gonzales Patrick Leahy Orrin Hatch Jon Kyl Dianne Feinstein Viet D. Dinh Joe Biden Michael Chertoff Barack Obama Eric Holder Chuck Schumer Lamar Smith Bob Graham Jay Rockefeller Arlen Specter Mike Oxley Dick Armey Paul Sarbanes Trent Lott Tom Daschle Russ Feingold Ellen Huvelle Ron Paul Lisa Murkowski Ron Wyden Dennis Kucinich Larry Craig John E. Sununu Richard Durbin Bernie Sanders Jerry Nadler John Conyers Jr. Butch Otter Government organizations Federal Bureau of Investigation Department of Justice Select Committee on Intelligence Department of the Treasury FinCEN Department of State National Institute of Standards and Technology Customs Service U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Non-government organizations American Civil Liberties Union American Library Association Center for Democracy and Technology Center for Public Integrity Electronic Frontier Foundation Electronic Privacy Information Center Humanitarian Law Project v t e United States articles History By event Pre-Columbian era Colonial era Thirteen Colonies military history Founding Fathers Continental Congress Lee Resolution Declaration of Independence American Revolution War Treaty of Paris Articles of Confederation Confederation Period American frontier Drafting and ratification of Constitution Bill of Rights Federalist Era War of 1812 Territorial acquisitions Territorial evolution Mexican–American War Civil War Reconstruction era Indian Wars Gilded Age Progressive Era Women's suffrage Civil rights movement 1865–1896 / 1896–1954 / 1954–1968 Spanish–American War Imperialism World War I Roaring Twenties Great Depression World War II home front American Century Cold War Korean War Space Race Feminist Movement Vietnam War Post-Cold War (1991–2008) War on Terror War in Afghanistan Iraq War Recent events (2008–present) By topic Outline of U.S. history Demographic Discoveries Economic debt ceiling Inventions before 1890 1890–1945 1946–1991 after 1991 Military Postal Technological and industrial Geography Territory Contiguous United States Continental America counties federal district federal enclaves Indian reservations insular zones minor outlying islands populated places states Earthquakes Extreme points Islands Mountains peaks ranges Appalachian Rocky National Park Service National Parks Regions East Coast West Coast Great Plains Gulf Mid-Atlantic Midwestern New England Pacific Central Eastern Northern Northeastern Northwestern Southern Southeastern Southwestern Western Longest rivers Arkansas Colorado Columbia Mississippi Missouri Red (South) Rio Grande Yukon Time Water supply and sanitation World Heritage Sites Politics Federal Executive Cabinet Civil service Executive departments Executive Office Independent agencies Law enforcement President of the United States Powers Public policy Legislative House of Representatives current members Speaker Senate current members President pro tempore Vice President Judicial Courts of appeals District courts Supreme Court Law Bill of Rights civil liberties Code of Federal Regulations Constitution federalism preemption separation of powers civil rights Federal Reporter United States Code United States Reports Intelligence Central Intelligence Agency Defense Intelligence Agency Federal Bureau of Investigation National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency National Reconnaissance Office National Security Agency Office of the Director of National Intelligence Uniformed Armed Forces Army Marine Corps Navy Air Force Coast Guard National Guard NOAA Corps Public Health Service Corps 51st state political status of Puerto Rico District of Columbia statehood movement Elections Electoral College Foreign relations Foreign policy Hawaiian sovereignty movement Ideologies anti-Americanism exceptionalism nationalism Local government Parties Democratic Republican Third parties Red states and blue states Purple America Scandals State government governor state legislature state court Imperial Presidency Corruption Economy By sector Agriculture Banking Communications Energy Insurance Manufacturing Mining Science and technology Tourism Trade Transportation by state Currency Exports Federal budget Federal Reserve System Financial position Labor unions Public debt Social welfare programs Taxation Unemployment Wall Street Society Culture Americana Architecture Cinema Crime Cuisine Dance Demography Economic issues affluence eviction home-ownership household income income inequality labor unions middle class personal income poverty standard of living wealth Education attainment Family structure Fashion Flag Folklore Health health care health insurance Holidays Homelessness Human rights Languages American English Indigenous languages ASL Black American Sign Language HSL Plains Sign Talk Arabic Chinese French German Italian Russian Spanish Literature Media Journalism Internet Newspapers Radio Television Music Names National symbols Columbia Statue of Liberty Uncle Sam People Philosophy Political ideologies Public holidays Race Religion Sexuality / Adolescent Sexuality Social class Society Sports Theater Transportation Video games Visual art Social class Affluence American Dream Educational attainment Homelessness Home-ownership Household income Income inequality Middle class Personal income Poverty Professional and working class conflict Standard of living Issues Ages of consent Capital punishment Crime incarceration Criticism of government Discrimination affirmative action antisemitism hair texture intersex rights Islamophobia LGBT rights racism same-sex marriage Drug policy Energy policy Environmental movement Gun politics Health care abortion health insurance hunger obesity smoking Human rights Immigration illegal International rankings National security Mass surveillance Terrorism Separation of church and state Outline Index Category Portal v t e National intelligence agencies Foreign intelligence Afghanistan: NDS Albania: SHISH Algeria: DRS Argentina: AFI Armenia: NSS Australia: ASIS Azerbaijan: MTN Bahrain: NSA Bangladesh: NSI Belarus: KGB RB Belgium: ADIV/SGRS Bosnia and Herzegovina: OSA-OBA Brazil: ABIN Brunei: BRD Bulgaria: NRS Cameroon: BMM Canada: CSIS Chad: ANS Chile: ANI China: MSS Congo (Democratic Republic of): ANR Croatia: SOA Cuba: DI Czech Republic: ÚZSI Denmark: FE Djibouti: BSRG Ecuador: SENAIN Egypt: Mukhabarat Estonia: EFIS France: DGSE Gambia: SIS Georgia: GIS Germany: BND Ghana: BNI, BGU, RDU Greece: EYP Hungary: IH India: RAW Indonesia: BIN Iran: VAJA Iraq: GSD Ireland: G2 Israel: Mossad Italy: AISE Ivory Coast: NSC Japan: NPA, CIRO Jordan: GID Kazakhstan: Syrbar Kenya: NIS Kyrgyzstan: SNB Kuwait: KSS Latvia: SAB Lithuania: VSD Lebanon: GDGS Libya: MJ Republic of Macedonia: UBK Malaysia: MEIO Maldives: NSS Mexico: CISEN Moldova: SIS Mongolia: GIA Montenegro: ANB Morocco: DGST Mozambique: SISE Netherlands: AIVD New Zealand: NZSIS Nigeria: NIA North Korea: RGB Norway: E-tjenesten Oman: Palace Office Pakistan: ISI Papua New Guinea: NIO Philippines: NICA Poland: AW Portugal: SIED Qatar: QSS Romania: SIE Russia: SVR Saudi Arabia: Al Mukhabarat Al A'amah Serbia: BIA Sierra Leone: CISU Singapore: SID Slovakia: SIS Slovenia: SOVA Somalia: NISA South Africa: SSA South Korea: NIS Spain: CNI Sri Lanka: SIS Sudan: JAWM Sweden: KSI Switzerland: NDB Syria: GSD Taiwan: NSB Tajikistan: GKNB Thailand: NIA Togo: NIA Tunisia: TIA Turkey: MİT Turkmenistan: MNS Uganda: ISO Ukraine: SZRU United Arab Emirates: UAEI United Kingdom: SIS (MI6) United States: CIA Uzbekistan: SSS Vietnam: TC2 Domestic intelligence Algeria: DRS Argentina: AFI Australia: ASIO Azerbaijan: MTN Bangladesh: SB Belarus: KGB RB Belgium: VS/SE Bosnia and Herzegovina: SIPA Brazil: PF Brunei: IRD Canada: CSIS Chile: ANI China: MSS Congo (Democratic Republic of): ANR Croatia: SOA Czech Republic: BIS Denmark: PET Egypt: EHS Estonia: KAPO Finland: Supo France: DGSI Germany: BfV Ghana: GPS, CID Greece: EYP Hong Kong: CIB Hungary: AH India: IB, CBI, NSC, AIRMS Indonesia: POLRI Iran: VAJA, IRGC, PAVA Ireland: CSB, SDU, NSU Israel: Shin Bet Italy: AISI Kazakhstan: NSC Kenya: NIS Latvia: DP Lithuania: STT Republic of Macedonia: IA Malaysia: SB Moldova: SIS Japan: NPA, PSIA Netherlands: NCTb New Zealand: NZSIS Nigeria: SSS Norway: PST North Korea: SSD Oman: ISS Pakistan: IB, FIA Philippines: NBI Poland: ABW Portugal: SIS Romania: SRI Russia: FSB Saudi Arabia: Mabahith Serbia: BIA Singapore: ISD South Africa: SSA South Korea: SPO Spain: CITCO Sri Lanka: SIS Sweden: SÄPO Switzerland: NDB Syria: GSD Taiwan: MJIB Thailand: ISOC, SB Turkey: KDGM Ukraine: SBU United Kingdom: Security Service (MI5), NDEDIU, NCA, NBIS United States: FBI Uzbekistan: SNB Venezuela: SEBIN Vietnam: TC5 Zimbabwe: CIO Military intelligence Australia: DIO Bangladesh: DGFI Belarus: GRU MO RB Belgium: ADIV/SGRS Brazil: DIE Canada: Int Branch China: MID Congo (Democratic Republic of): DEMIAP Croatia: VSOA Czech Republic: VZ Denmark: FE Egypt: DMISR Finland: PE TIEDOS France: DRM, DGSE Germany: MAD Ghana: MIU Hungary: KNBSZ Iran: General Staff, SAHEFAJA, SAHEFASA, SAHEFAVEDJA India: DMI, DIA Indonesia: BAIS Ireland: G2 Israel: Aman Italy: CII Japan: MIC Kazakhstan: NSC Lithuania: AOTD Republic of Macedonia: MSSI Malaysia: DSID Morocco: DGED Netherlands: MIVD New Zealand: DDIS North Korea: RGB Norway: E-tjenesten Pakistan: MI, NI, AI Philippines: ISAFP Poland: SKW, SWW Portugal: CISMIL Romania: DGIA Russia: GRU Saudi Arabia: AFISC Serbia: VOA, VBA Singapore: MIO Slovakia: VSS Slovenia: OVS South Africa: SANDF-ID South Korea: DIA, DSSC Spain: CIFAS Sri Lanka: DMI Sweden: MUST Switzerland: MND Syria: MI, AFID Taiwan: MND Thailand: AFSC Turkey: GENKUR İ.D.B., JİTEM Ukraine: HUR MO United Kingdom: DI United States: DIA Venezuela: DGCIM Vietnam: TC2 Signals intelligence Australia: ASD Brazil: 2ª Sch/EMD Canada: CSE China: SIGINT Croatia: OTC Finland: PVTIEDL France: DGSE Germany: BND Ghana: RDU India: JCB,NTRO Indonesia: BSSN Ireland: CIS Israel: 8200 Japan: DIH Kazakhstan: NSC Netherlands: NSO New Zealand: GCSB North Korea: RGB Pakistan: JSIB Russia: Spetssvyaz Saudi Arabia: PSS South Africa: SSA Sweden: FRA Switzerland: NDB Syria: MI Turkey: MİT-ETİB, MİT-SİB UAE: SIA Ukraine: Derzhspetszviazok United Kingdom: GCHQ United States: NSA Imagery intelligence Australia: AGO Finland: PVTIEDL India: DAI Indonesia: BIG Israel: Air Intelligence Group Malaysia: MaCGDI New Zealand: GEOINT NZ Portugal: CIGeoE Russia: TsVTI GRU United Kingdom: DGIFC United States: NGA Financial intelligence Argintenia: UIF Australia: AUSTRAC Canada: FINTRAC France: Tracfin Inodnesia: PPATK Ireland: GNECB Qatar: FIU Russia: Rosfinmonitoring United Kingdom: NCA United States: TFI, FinCEN Related topics Espionage Global surveillance disclosures Chelsea Manning Snowden leaks WikiLeaks Great Firewall of China Mass surveillance in China Law enforcement Surveillance Big Brother Call detail record Carnivore Dishfire ECHELON PRISM Stone Ghost Turbulence (NSA programme) National security Surveillance issues in smart cities v t e Law enforcement in North America Sovereign states Antigua and Barbuda Bahamas Barbados Belize Canada Costa Rica Cuba Dominica Dominican Republic El Salvador Grenada Guatemala Haiti Honduras Jamaica Mexico Nicaragua Panama Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Trinidad and Tobago United States Dependencies and other territories Anguilla Aruba Bermuda Bonaire British Virgin Islands Cayman Islands Curaçao Greenland Guadeloupe Martinique Montserrat Puerto Rico Saint Barthélemy Saint Martin Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saba Sint Eustatius Sint Maarten Turks and Caicos Islands United States Virgin Islands Authority control BNE: XX150939 BNF: cb120073677 (data) GND: 35632-3 ISNI: 0000 0004 0481 0043 LCCN: n78095617 NKC: kn20030825006 NLA: 35567597 NLG: 227611 SELIBR: 133942 SUDOC: 027521052 VIAF: 136624868 WorldCat Identities: lccn-n78095617 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Federal_Bureau_of_Investigation&oldid=953837147" Categories: Federal Bureau of Investigation Federal law enforcement agencies of the United States United States Department of Justice agencies United States intelligence agencies Government agencies established in 1908 1908 establishments in Washington, D.C. 1908 establishments in the United States Anti-communist organizations in the United States Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list All articles lacking reliable references Articles lacking reliable references from May 2019 Wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected pages Wikipedia indefinitely move-protected pages Articles with short description Use mdy dates from July 2018 Coordinates not on Wikidata Articles needing additional references from July 2018 All articles needing additional references Articles containing potentially dated statements from December 2009 All articles containing potentially dated statements Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2004 CS1 maint: extra text: authors list Articles with Project Gutenberg links Articles with LibriVox links Wikipedia articles with BNE identifiers Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers Wikipedia articles with NKC identifiers Wikipedia articles with NLA identifiers Wikipedia articles with NLG identifiers Wikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiers Wikipedia articles with SUDOC identifiers Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers Wikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read View source View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikinews Wikiquote Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Afrikaans العربية Asturianu Azərbaycanca বাংলা Bân-lâm-gú Башҡортса Беларуская Беларуская (тарашкевіца)‎ Български Bosanski Brezhoneg Català Čeština Cymraeg Dansk Deutsch Eesti Ελληνικά Español Esperanto Euskara فارسی Føroyskt Français Frysk Gaeilge Galego 한국어 Հայերեն हिन्दी Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Íslenska Italiano עברית ಕನ್ನಡ ქართული Қазақша Kiswahili Kurdî Кыргызча Latina Latviešu Lietuvių Lumbaart Magyar Македонски മലയാളം मराठी მარგალური Bahasa Melayu မြန်မာဘာသာ Nederlands नेपाली 日本語 Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Occitan ਪੰਜਾਬੀ ភាសាខ្មែរ Polski Português Română Русский Scots Shqip Simple English Slovenčina Slovenščina Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Suomi Svenska தமிழ் ไทย Türkçe Українська اردو Tiếng Việt 文言 吴语 ייִדיש 粵語 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 29 April 2020, at 08:55 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view