https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_Intelligence_Community
United States Intelligence Community - Wikipedia
United States Intelligence Community From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Collective term for US federal intelligence and security agencies United States Intelligence Community Seal of the United States Intelligence Community Agency overview Formed December 4, 1981 Agency executive Richard Grenell, Director of National Intelligence (acting) Website intelligence.gov The United States Intelligence Community (IC) is a group of separate United States government intelligence agencies and subordinate organizations, that work separately and together to conduct intelligence activities to support the foreign policy and national security of the United States. Member organizations of the IC include intelligence agencies, military intelligence, and civilian intelligence and analysis offices within federal executive departments. The IC is overseen by the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI), which itself is headed by the Director of National Intelligence (DNI), who reports to the President of the United States.[1][2] Among their varied responsibilities, the members of the Community collect and produce foreign and domestic intelligence, contribute to military planning, and perform espionage. The IC was established by Executive Order 12333, signed on December 4, 1981, by U.S. President Ronald Reagan.[3] The Washington Post reported in 2010 that there were 1,271 government organizations and 1,931 private companies in 10,000 locations in the United States that were working on counterterrorism, homeland security, and intelligence, and that the intelligence community as a whole includes 854,000 people holding top-secret clearances.[4] According to a 2008 study by the ODNI, private contractors make up 29% of the workforce in the U.S. intelligence community and account for 49% of their personnel budgets.[5] Contents 1 Etymology 2 History 3 Organization 3.1 Members 3.2 Programs 3.3 Organizational structure and leadership 3.4 Interagency cooperation 3.5 Budget 3.6 Oversight 4 See also 5 References 6 External links Etymology[edit] The term Intelligence Community was first used during LTG Walter Bedell Smith's tenure as Director of Central Intelligence (1950–1953).[6] History[edit] Intelligence is information that agencies collect, analyze, and distribute in response to government leaders' questions and requirements. Intelligence is a broad term that entails: Collection, analysis, and production of sensitive information to support national security leaders, including policymakers, military commanders, and Members of Congress. Safeguarding these processes and this information through counterintelligence activities. Execution of covert operations approved by the President. The IC strives to provide valuable insight on important issues by gathering raw intelligence, analyzing that data in context, and producing timely and relevant products for customers at all levels of national security—from the war-fighter on the ground to the President in Washington.[7] Executive Order 12333 charged the IC with six primary objectives:[8] Collection of information needed by the President, the National Security Council, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, and other executive branch officials for the performance of their duties and responsibilities; Production and dissemination of intelligence; Collection of information concerning, and the conduct of activities to protect against, intelligence activities directed against the U.S., international terrorist and/or narcotics activities, and other hostile activities directed against the U.S. by foreign powers, organizations, persons and their agents; Special activities (defined as activities conducted in support of U.S. foreign policy objectives abroad which are planned and executed so that the "role of the United States Government is not apparent or acknowledged publicly", and functions in support of such activities, but which are not intended to influence United States political processes, public opinion, policies, or media and do not include diplomatic activities or the collection and production of intelligence or related support functions); Administrative and support activities within the United States and abroad necessary for the performance of authorized activities and Such other intelligence activities as the President may direct from time to time. Organization[edit] Members[edit] The IC is headed by the Director of National Intelligence (DNI), whose statutory leadership is exercised through the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI). The other 16 members of the IC are:[9] The official seals of U.S. Intelligence Community members. Organization Parent Organization Federal Department Date est. Sixteenth Air Force United States Air Force Defense 1948 Intelligence and Security Command United States Army Defense 1977 Central Intelligence Agency none Independent agency 1947 Coast Guard Intelligence United States Coast Guard Homeland Security 1915 Defense Intelligence Agency United States Department of Defense Defense 1961 Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence United States Department of Energy Energy 1977 Office of Intelligence and Analysis United States Department of Homeland Security Homeland Security 2007 Bureau of Intelligence and Research United States Department of State State 1945 Office of Terrorism and Financial Intelligence United States Department of the Treasury Treasury 2004 Office of National Security Intelligence Drug Enforcement Administration Justice 2006 Intelligence Branch Federal Bureau of Investigation Justice 2005 Marine Corps Intelligence Activity United States Marine Corps Defense 1978 National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency United States Department of Defense Defense 1996 National Reconnaissance Office United States Department of Defense Defense 1961 National Security Agency/Central Security Service United States Department of Defense Defense 1952 Office of Naval Intelligence United States Navy Defense 1882 Programs[edit] The IC performs under two separate programs: The National Intelligence Program (NIP), formerly known as the National Foreign Intelligence Program as defined by the National Security Act of 1947 (as amended), "refers to all programs, projects, and activities of the intelligence community, as well as any other programs of the intelligence community designated jointly by the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) and the head of a United States department or agency or by the President. Such term does not include programs, projects, or activities of the military departments to acquire intelligence solely for the planning and conduct of tactical military operations by the United States Armed Forces". Under the law, the DNI is responsible for directing and overseeing the NIP, though the ability to do so is limited (see the Organization structure and leadership section). The Military Intelligence Program (MIP) refers to the programs, projects, or activities of the military departments to acquire intelligence solely for the planning and conduct of tactical military operations by the United States Armed Forces. The MIP is directed and controlled by the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence. In 2005 the Department of Defense combined the Joint Military Intelligence Program and the Tactical Intelligence and Related Activities program to form the MIP. Since the definitions of the NIP and MIP overlap when they address military intelligence, assignment of intelligence activities to the NIP and MIP sometimes proves problematic. Organizational structure and leadership[edit] The overall organization of the IC is primarily governed by the National Security Act of 1947 (as amended) and Executive Order 12333. The statutory organizational relationships were substantially revised with the 2004 Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act (IRTPA) amendments to the 1947 National Security Act. Though the IC characterizes itself as a federation of its member elements,[10] its overall structure is better characterized as a confederation due to its lack of a well-defined, unified leadership and governance structure. Prior to 2004, the Director of Central Intelligence (DCI) was the head of the IC, in addition to being the director of the CIA. A major criticism of this arrangement was that the DCI had little or no actual authority over the budgetary authorities of the other IC agencies and therefore had limited influence over their operations. Following the passage of IRTPA in 2004, the head of the IC is the Director of National Intelligence (DNI). The DNI exerts leadership of the IC primarily through statutory authorities under which he or she: controls the "National Intelligence Program" budget; establishes objectives, priorities, and guidance for the IC; and manages and directs the tasking of, collection, analysis, production, and dissemination of national intelligence by elements of the IC. However, the DNI has no authority to direct and control any element of the IC except his own staff—the Office of the DNI—neither does the DNI have the authority to hire or fire personnel in the IC except those on his own staff. The member elements in the executive branch are directed and controlled by their respective department heads, all cabinet-level officials reporting to the President. By law, only the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency reports to the DNI.[citation needed] In light of major intelligence failures in recent years that called into question how well Intelligence Community ensures U.S. national security, particularly those identified by the 9/11 Commission (National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States), and the "WMD Commission" (Commission on the Intelligence Capabilities of the United States Regarding Weapons of Mass Destruction), the authorities and powers of the DNI and the overall organizational structure of the IC have become subject of intense debate in the United States. Interagency cooperation[edit] Previously, interagency cooperation and the flow of information among the member agencies was hindered by policies that sought to limit the pooling of information out of privacy and security concerns. Attempts to modernize and facilitate interagency cooperation within the IC include technological, structural, procedural, and cultural dimensions. Examples include the Intellipedia wiki of encyclopedic security-related information; the creation of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, National Intelligence Centers, Program Manager Information Sharing Environment, and Information Sharing Council; legal and policy frameworks set by the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004, information sharing Executive Orders 13354 and Executive Order 13388, and the 2005 National Intelligence Strategy. Budget[edit] Data visualization of U.S. intelligence black budget (2013) The U.S. intelligence budget (excluding the Military Intelligence Program) in fiscal year 2013 was appropriated as $52.7 billion, and reduced by the amount sequestered to $49.0 billion.[11] In fiscal year 2012 it peaked at $53.9 billion, according to a disclosure required under a recent law implementing recommendations of the 9/11 Commission.[12] The 2012 figure was up from $53.1 billion in 2010,[13] $49.8 billion in 2009,[14] $47.5 billion in 2008,[15] $43.5 billion in 2007,[16] and $40.9 billion in 2006.[17] About 70 percent of the intelligence budget went to contractors for the procurement of technology and services (including analysis), according to the May 2007 chart from the ODNI. Intelligence spending has increased by a third over ten years ago, in inflation-adjusted dollars, according to the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments.[citation needed] In a statement on the release of new declassified figures, DNI Mike McConnell said[when?] there would be no additional disclosures of classified budget information beyond the overall spending figure because "such disclosures could harm national security". How the money is divided among the 16 intelligence agencies and what it is spent on is classified. It includes salaries for about 100,000 people, multibillion-dollar satellite programs, aircraft, weapons, electronic sensors, intelligence analysis, spies, computers, and software. On August 29, 2013 The Washington Post published the summary of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence's multivolume FY 2013 Congressional Budget Justification, the U.S. Intelligence Community's top-secret "black budget".[18][19][20] The IC's FY 2013 budget details how the 16 spy agencies use the money and how it performs against the goals set by the president and Congress. Experts said that access to such details about U.S. spy programs is without precedent. Steven Aftergood of the Federation of American Scientists, which provides analyses of national security issues, stated that "It was a titanic struggle just to get the top-line budget number disclosed, and that has only been done consistently since 2007 ... but a real grasp of the structure and operations of the intelligence bureaucracy has been totally beyond public reach. This kind of material, even on a historical basis, has simply not been available."[21] Access to budget details will enable an informed public debate on intelligence spending for the first time, said the co-chair of the 9/11 Commission Lee H. Hamilton. He added that Americans should not be excluded from the budget process because the intelligence community has a profound impact on the life of ordinary Americans.[21] Oversight[edit] Intelligence Community Oversight duties are distributed to both the Executive and Legislative branches. Primary Executive oversight is performed by the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board, the Joint Intelligence Community Council, the Office of the Inspector General, and the Office of Management and Budget. Primary congressional oversight jurisdiction over the IC is assigned to two committees: the United States House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and the United States Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. The House Armed Services Committee and Senate Armed Services Committee draft bills to annually authorize the budgets of DoD intelligence activities, and both the House and Senate appropriations committees annually draft bills to appropriate the budgets of the IC. The Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs took a leading role in formulating the intelligence reform legislation in the 108th Congress. See also[edit] United States portal Politics portal UKUSA Agreement, ECHELON, and Five Eyes United Kingdom Intelligence Community New Zealand intelligence agencies Intelligence services in Canada Australian Intelligence Community AUSCANNZUKUS List of intelligence agencies of France Israeli Intelligence Community National Security Act of 1947 United States National Security Council National Virtual Translation Center Pakistani intelligence community Russian Intelligence Community Spanish Intelligence Community Top Secret America, a 2010 Washington Post series on the post-9/11 growth of the United States Intelligence Community References[edit] Notes ^ Agrawal, Nina. "There's more than the CIA and FBI: The 17 agencies that make up the U.S. intelligence community". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved January 30, 2017. ^ "Members of the IC". Office of the Director of National Intelligence. Archived from the original on November 17, 2018. Retrieved November 17, 2018. ^ "Executive Order 12333". Cia.gov. Retrieved January 23, 2013. ^ Dana Priest & William M Arkin (July 19, 2010). "A hidden world, growing beyond control". The Washington Post. [dead link] ^ Priest, Dana (2011). Top Secret America: The Rise of the New American Security State. Little, Brown and Company. p. 320. ISBN 978-0-316-18221-8. ^ Warner, Michael; McDonald, Kenneth. "US Intelligence Community Reform Studies Since 1947" (PDF). CIA. p. 4. Retrieved June 28, 2013. ^ Rosenbach, Eric & Aki J. Peritz (June 12, 2009). "Confrontation or Collaboration? Congress and the Intelligence Community" (PDF). Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Harvard Kennedy School. Retrieved July 21, 2009. ^ Executive Order 12333 text ^ User, Super. "Members of the IC". Archived from the original on March 1, 2016. Retrieved February 10, 2016. ^ "What is Intelligence?". www.odni.gov. Office of the Director of National Intelligence. Archived from the original on November 17, 2018. Retrieved November 17, 2018. ^ "DNI Releases Budget Figure for 2013 National Intelligence Program". Office of the Director of National Intelligence. 30 October 2013. Archived from the original on 2 March 2014. Retrieved 2 August 2014. ^ DNI Releases FY 2012 Appropriated Budget Figure. Dni.gov (2012-10-30). Retrieved on 2013-08-16. ^ "DNI Releases Budget Figure for 2010 National Intelligence Program" (PDF). Office of the Director of National Intelligence. October 28, 2010. Retrieved June 15, 2013. ^ "DNI Releases Budget Figure for 2009 National Intelligence Program" (PDF). Retrieved June 15, 2013. ^ "DNI Releases Budget Figure for 2008 National Intelligence Program" (PDF). Retrieved June 15, 2013. ^ "DNI Releases Budget Figure for 2007 National Intelligence Program" (PDF). Retrieved June 15, 2013. ^ Hacket, John F. (October 28, 2010). "FY2006 National Intelligence Program Budget, 10-28-10" (PDF). Office of the Director of National Intelligence. Retrieved June 15, 2013. ^ Matt DeLong (August 29, 2013). "Inside the 2013 U.S. intelligence 'black budget'". The Washington Post. Retrieved August 31, 2013. ^ Matthews, Dylan (August 29, 2013). "America's secret intelligence budget, in 11 (nay, 13) charts". The Washington Post. Retrieved August 31, 2013. ^ DeLong, Matt (August 29, 2013). "2013 U.S. intelligence budget: Additional resources". The Washington Post. Retrieved August 31, 2013. ^ a b Barton Gellman & Greg Miller (August 29, 2013). "U.S. spy network's successes, failures and objectives detailed in 'black budget' summary". The Washington Post. Retrieved August 31, 2013. This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "United States Intelligence Community" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (July 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Further reading Library resources about United States Intelligence Community Resources in your library Resources in other libraries Richelson, Jeffrey T. (2012). The United States Intelligence Community (Sixth ed.). Boulder, Colo.: Westview Press. ISBN 978-0-8133-4512-3. OCLC 701015423. External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to United States Intelligence Community. Congressional Research Service (CRS) Reports regarding U.S. Intelligence ODNI Members of the IC v t e United States Intelligence Community Intelligence Community Defense Defense Intelligence Agency Defense Clandestine Service Defense Debriefing Service Defense Attaché System National Intelligence University Missile and Space Intelligence Center National Center for Medical Intelligence Joint Functional Component Command for Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency National Reconnaissance Office National Security Agency Central Security Service Special Collection Service Armed Forces Army Intelligence and Security Command Marine Corps Intelligence Office of Naval Intelligence Twenty-Fifth Air Force Coast Guard Intelligence (Homeland Security) Civilian Bureau of Intelligence and Research (State) Central Intelligence Agency Directorate of Operations Special Activities Division Open Source Center Directorate of Science and Technology CIA University DEA Office of National Security Intelligence (Justice) FBI Intelligence Branch (Justice) Office of Intelligence and Analysis (Homeland Security) Office of Intelligence and Analysis (Treasury) Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence (Energy) Director of National Intelligence Director of National Intelligence National Counterterrorism Center National Counterproliferation Center National Counterintelligence and Security Center Cyber Threat Intelligence Integration Center National Intelligence Council Intelligence Advanced Research Projects Activity Joint Intelligence Community Council Chief Information Officer Executive Office of the President National Security Advisor National Security Council President's Intelligence Advisory Board Homeland Security Council Homeland Security Advisor President's Daily Brief Other Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency National Security Division (Justice) Army Intelligence Support Activity Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communications System Intellipedia Oversight Senate Intelligence Committee House Intelligence Committee Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board Office of Management and Budget Defunct Contingency Fund for Foreign Intercourse Counterintelligence Field Activity Military Information Division Military Intelligence Division Military Intelligence Service Office of Strategic Services Office of Special Plans Strategic Support Branch v t e United States articles History By event Pre-Columbian era Colonial era Thirteen Colonies military history Founding Fathers Continental Congress Lee Resolution Declaration of Independence American Revolution War Treaty of Paris Articles of Confederation Confederation Period American frontier Drafting and ratification of Constitution Bill of Rights Federalist Era War of 1812 Territorial acquisitions Territorial evolution Mexican–American War Civil War Reconstruction era Indian Wars Gilded Age Progressive Era Women's suffrage Civil rights movement 1865–1896 / 1896–1954 / 1954–1968 Spanish–American War Imperialism World War I Roaring Twenties Great Depression World War II home front American Century Cold War Korean War Space Race Feminist Movement Vietnam War Post-Cold War (1991–2008) War on Terror War in Afghanistan Iraq War Recent events (2008–present) By topic Outline of U.S. history Demographic Discoveries Economic debt ceiling Inventions before 1890 1890–1945 1946–1991 after 1991 Military Postal Technological and industrial Geography Territory Contiguous United States Continental America counties federal district federal enclaves Indian reservations insular zones minor outlying islands populated places states Earthquakes Extreme points Islands Mountains peaks ranges Appalachian Rocky National Park Service National Parks Regions East Coast West Coast Great Plains Gulf Mid-Atlantic Midwestern New England Pacific Central Eastern Northern Northeastern Northwestern Southern Southeastern Southwestern Western Longest rivers Arkansas Colorado Columbia Mississippi Missouri Red (South) Rio Grande Yukon Time Water supply and sanitation World Heritage Sites Politics Federal Executive Cabinet Civil service Executive departments Executive Office Independent agencies Law enforcement President of the United States Powers Public policy Legislative House of Representatives current members Speaker Senate current members President pro tempore Vice President Judicial Courts of appeals District courts Supreme Court Law Bill of Rights civil liberties Code of Federal Regulations Constitution federalism preemption separation of powers civil rights Federal Reporter United States Code United States Reports Intelligence Central Intelligence Agency Defense Intelligence Agency Federal Bureau of Investigation National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency National Reconnaissance Office National Security Agency Office of the Director of National Intelligence Uniformed Armed Forces Army Marine Corps Navy Air Force Coast Guard National Guard NOAA Corps Public Health Service Corps 51st state political status of Puerto Rico District of Columbia statehood movement Elections Electoral College Foreign relations Foreign policy Hawaiian sovereignty movement Ideologies anti-Americanism exceptionalism nationalism Local government Parties Democratic Republican Third parties Red states and blue states Purple America Scandals State government governor state legislature state court Imperial Presidency Corruption Economy By sector Agriculture Banking Communications Energy Insurance Manufacturing Mining Science and technology Tourism Trade Transportation by state Currency Exports Federal budget Federal Reserve System Financial position Labor unions Public debt Social welfare programs Taxation Unemployment Wall Street Society Culture Americana Architecture Cinema Crime Cuisine Dance Demography Economic issues affluence eviction home-ownership household income income inequality labor unions middle class personal income poverty standard of living wealth Education attainment Family structure Fashion Flag Folklore Health health care health insurance Holidays Homelessness Human rights Languages American English Indigenous languages ASL Black American Sign Language HSL Plains Sign Talk Arabic Chinese French German Italian Russian Spanish Literature Media Journalism Internet Newspapers Radio Television Music Names National symbols Columbia Statue of Liberty Uncle Sam People Philosophy Political ideologies Public holidays Race Religion Sexuality / Adolescent Sexuality Social class Society Sports Theater Transportation Video games Visual art Social class Affluence American Dream Educational attainment Homelessness Home-ownership Household income Income inequality Middle class Personal income Poverty Professional and working class conflict Standard of living Issues Ages of consent Capital punishment Crime incarceration Criticism of government Discrimination affirmative action antisemitism hair texture intersex rights Islamophobia LGBT rights racism same-sex marriage Drug policy Energy policy Environmental movement Gun politics Health care abortion health insurance hunger obesity smoking Human rights Immigration illegal International rankings National security Mass surveillance Terrorism Separation of church and state Outline Index Category Portal Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=United_States_Intelligence_Community&oldid=951713139" Categories: 1981 establishments in the United States Executive branch of the United States government Intelligence communities Organizations established in 1981 United States intelligence agencies Hidden categories: All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from April 2020 Articles with short description Use American English from February 2019 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Use mdy dates from February 2019 All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from July 2018 Articles with unsourced statements from April 2012 All articles with vague or ambiguous time Vague or ambiguous time from August 2014 Articles needing additional references from July 2018 All articles needing additional references Commons category link is defined as the pagename Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages العربية Български Català Deutsch Ελληνικά Español فارسی Français Bahasa Indonesia Italiano עברית Lëtzebuergesch Magyar Bahasa Melayu Norsk bokmål Polski Português Русский Svenska Türkçe Tiếng Việt 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 18 April 2020, at 13:49 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view