https://www.google.com/search?tbs=bks:1&q=%222016+United+States+presidential+election%22+-wikipedia
"2016 United States presidential election" -wikipedia - Google Search
Please click here if you are not redirected within a few seconds. Sign in Report inappropriate predictions All News Shopping Images Books More Maps Videos Flights Finance Settings Search settingsLanguages Turn on SafeSearchAdvanced searchSearch activityYour data in SearchSearch helpTools About 1,360 results (0.47 seconds) Search Results The 2016 American Presidential Campaign and the News: ... books.google.com › books books.google.com › books Jim A. Kuypers - 2018 This book examines issues such as fake news, media bias, visual meme depictions of the candidates, and social media as news during the 2016 presidential campaign. Preview More editions Studies of Communication in the 2016 Presidential Campaign books.google.com › books books.google.com › books Robert E. Denton Jr. - 2017 This edited collection explores a wide range of communication elements and themes, representing a variety of topics and methodologies. Preview More editions Donald Trump and the Wig of Evil books.google.com › books books.google.com › books Guy Larsen - 2016 - ‎No preview In the 2016 United States Presidential election, Donald Trump changed from being a loudmouthed, celebrity wildcard to a serious contender. How did he do this?Is it possible there was something else pulling the strings? The Big Push: Exposing and Challenging the Persistence of ... books.google.com › books books.google.com › books Cynthia Enloe - 2017 Timely and globally conscious, The Big Push is a call for feminist self-reflection and strategic action with a belief that exposure complements resistance. Preview More editions Critical Theory and the Humanities in the Age of the Alt-Right books.google.com › books books.google.com › books Christine M. Battista, ‎Melissa R. Sande - 2019 This edited collection uses critical theory in order to understand the rise of the Alt-Right and the election of Donald Trump—and, in doing so, to assert the necessity and value of various disciplines within the humanities. Preview More editions No image available Impact of the 2016 US Presidential Election on OCD Symptom ... books.google.com › books books.google.com › books 2018 - ‎No preview Abstract: A recent survey of Americans found that the majority experienced stress during and after the 2016 United States presidential election. Trump Sonnets - Volume 3 books.google.com › books books.google.com › books Ken Waldman - 2019 - ‎No preview If you think Donald Trump is satire-proof, think again. And VOLUME 3 has taken the project further. Ken Waldman and his publisher, Ridgeway Press, successfully raised money for this book through a Kickstarter campaign. More editions Taking America Back for God: Christian Nationalism in the ... books.google.com › books books.google.com › books Andrew L. Whitehead, ‎Samuel L. Perry - 2020 Taking America Back for God is a guide to one of the most important-and least understood-forces shaping American politics. Preview More editions How Rational Irrationality Shaped the 2016 Presidential Election books.google.com › books books.google.com › books Seth Carter - 2018 - ‎No preview Research Paper (undergraduate) from the year 2018 in the subject Business economics - Economic Policy, grade: 4.00, Indiana University (College of Arts and Sciences), course: Economics of Regulation, language: English, abstract: This paper ... American Discontent: The Rise of Donald Trump and Decline of ... books.google.com › books books.google.com › books John L. Campbell - 2018 In American Discontent, John L. Campbell contextualizes Donald Trump's success by focusing on the long-developing economic, racial, ideological, and political shifts that enabled Trump to win the White House. Preview More editions 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Next - - HelpSend feedbackPrivacyTerms Google apps