https://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=%222016+United+States+presidential+election%22
Google Scholar
Loading... The system can't perform the operation now. Try again later. Cite Advanced search Find articles with all of the words with the exact phrase with at least one of the words without the words where my words occur anywhere in the article in the title of the article Return articles authored by e.g., "PJ Hayes" or McCarthy Return articles published in e.g., J Biol Chem or Nature Return articles dated between — e.g., 1996 ArticlesCase lawProfiles My profileMy libraryAlertsMetrics Advanced search Settings Sign in Sign in Articles Scholar About 1,050 results (0.10 sec) My profileMy library Year Any timeSince 2020Since 2019Since 2016 Sort by relevanceSort by date include patentsinclude citations Any time Since 2020 Since 2019 Since 2016 Custom range... — Search Sort by relevance Sort by date include patents include citations Create alert [PDF] gold.ac.uk Collective narcissism and the growth of conspiracy thinking over the course of the 2016 United States presidential election: A longitudinal analysis A Golec de Zavala, CM Federico - European Journal of Social …, 2018 - Wiley Online Library Using data from a longitudinal study of American adults collected between July and November 2016, we examine the hypothesis that American collective narcissism (CN) would uniquely predict increases in conspiracy thinking during the 2016 presidential campaign … Cited by 13 Related articles All 8 versions [PDF] academia.edu Increase in GLBTQ minority stress following the 2016 US presidential election KA Gonzalez, JL Ramirez… - Journal of GLBT Family …, 2018 - Taylor & Francis … While campaigning for the 2016 United States presidential election, Donald J. Trump reported that he would be the first Republican president to support gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, and queer (GLBTQ) people (Lopez, 2017) … Cited by 31 Related articles All 5 versions The wound of whiteness: conceptualizing economic convergence as Trauma in the 2016 United States Presidential Election M Sioh - Geoforum, 2018 - Elsevier Political commentators on the right of the political spectrum and the mainstream left assert that Donald Trump's victory in the 2016 United States presidential election was due to poor white male voters left behind by globalization because his opponent abandoned them by … Cited by 3 Related articles Changes in Blood Pressure After the 2016 United States Presidential Election. Analyses in Response to “The Association of Posttraumatic Stress Disorder With Clinic … KL Hodges, JA McElroy, S Misra - Psychosomatic medicine, 2018 - journals.lww.com With the recent spate of studies looking into the effect of socioeconomics and health, I wanted to share some interesting findings we found incidentally as a part of a larger blood pressure study that add evidence to the findings of Edmondson et al. on the relationship … Cited by 2 Related articles All 4 versions The voice acoustics of the 2016 United States presidential election candidates: A cross-gender study R Signorello, N Rhee - The Journal of the Acoustical Society of …, 2016 - asa.scitation.org The present study investigates the acoustic voice profiles (vocal fundamental frequency and intensity) of two female (Hillary Clinton and Carly Fiorina) and two male (Bernie Sanders and Donald Trump) candidates to the 2016 United States presidential election. The criteria … Cited by 2 Related articles All 2 versions “We won't go back into the closet now without one hell of a fight”: Effects of the 2016 presidential election on sexual minority women's and gender minorities' stigma … CB Veldhuis, L Drabble, EDB Riggle… - Sexuality Research and …, 2018 - Springer Much progress has been made in terms of LGBTQ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer) rights. The 2016 United States presidential election, however, raised concerns that this progress could … Cited by 29 Related articles All 3 versions [PDF] e-tarjome.com “THE RUSSIANS ARE HACKING MY BRAIN!” investigating Russia's internet research agency twitter tactics during the 2016 United States presidential campaign DL Linvill, BC Boatwright, WJ Grant… - Computers in Human …, 2019 - Elsevier … 1–11) – began to sow discord in the US political system. With this indictment it is by now widely accepted that the IRA played a significant, and perhaps even game-changing, role in the 2016 United States' Presidential Election (Jamieson, 2018) … Cited by 8 Related articles All 2 versions [PDF] psyarxiv.com [PDF][PDF] Characterizing the Internet Research Agency's Social Media Operations During the 2016 US Presidential Election using Linguistic Analyses RL Boyd, A Spangher, A Fourney, B Nushi, G Ranade… - 2018 - psyarxiv.com … Introduction In May 2018, the Democratic representatives from the United States House Permanent Select Committee on Intel- ligence (USHPSCI) made public their findings regarding Russian interference in the 2016 United States presidential election … Cited by 13 Related articles All 11 versions View as HTML [PDF] academia.edu “My aunt unfriended me:” Narratives of GLBTQ family relationships post 2016 presidential election KA Gonzalez, L Pulice-Farrow… - Journal of GLBT Family …, 2018 - Taylor & Francis … KEYWORDS LGBTQ people; election; family-of-origin; relationships; well-being This research explores the impact of the 2016 United States presidential election on gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, and queer (GLBTQ) peoples' relationships within their family-of-origin … Cited by 8 Related articles All 4 versions Ageism and sexism in the 2016 United States presidential election A Lytle, J Macdonald, C Dyar… - Analyses of Social Issues …, 2018 - Wiley Online Library Abstract The 2016 US Presidential Election provided a unique opportunity to examine how ageism and sexism may impact attitudes (perceived presidential qualities and endorsement of positive and negative age stereotypes) toward Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump … Cited by 2 Related articles All 3 versions Create alert Related searches conspiracy thinking united states presidential election economic convergence united states presidential election united states presidential campaign election candidates united states presidential election outcome presidential election hope and empowerment presidential election experiences of discrimination presidential election minority stress presidential election family relationships presidential election linguistic analyses presidential election ageism and sexism collective narcissism united states presidential election longitudinal analysis united states presidential election voice acoustics united states cross-gender study united states ageism and sexism united states Previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Next 12345678910 HelpPrivacyTerms