https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eastern_Time_Zone
Eastern Time Zone - Wikipedia
Eastern Time Zone From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Time zone observing UTC−05:00 during standard time and UTC−04:00 during daylight saving time This article is about Eastern Standard Time (UTC−5) and Eastern Daylight Savings Time in the Americas. For Eastern Standard Time in Australia (UTC+10), see Australian Eastern Standard Time. For the Eastern Daylight Time Zone of Australia, see Daylight saving time in Australia. Eastern Time Zone Eastern Time Zone UTC offset EST UTC−05:00 EDT UTC−04:00 Current time 07:35, 29 April 2020 EST [refresh] 08:35, 29 April 2020 EDT [refresh] Observance of DST DST is observed in parts of this time zone. The Eastern Time Zone (ET) is a time zone encompassing part or all of 22 states in the eastern part of the contiguous United States, parts of eastern Canada, the state of Quintana Roo in Mexico, Panama in Central America, and Colombia, mainland Ecuador, Peru, and a small portion of westernmost Brazil in South America, along with certain Caribbean and Atlantic islands. Places that use Eastern Standard Time (EST) when observing standard time (autumn/winter) are five hours behind Coordinated Universal Time (UTC−05:00). Eastern Daylight Time (EDT), when observing daylight saving time (spring/summer), is four hours behind Coordinated Universal Time (UTC−04:00). In the northern parts of the time zone, on the second Sunday in March, at 2:00 a.m. EST, clocks are advanced to 3:00 a.m. EDT leaving a one-hour "gap". On the first Sunday in November, at 2:00 a.m. EDT, clocks are moved back to 1:00 a.m. EST, thus "duplicating" one hour. Southern parts of the zone (Panama and the Caribbean) do not observe daylight saving time. The largest city in the Eastern Time Zone is New York; the New York metropolitan area is the largest metropolitan area in the zone. Contents 1 History 2 Daylight saving time 3 Canada 4 United States 5 Mexico 6 Caribbean islands 6.1 Turks and Caicos Islands 7 Central and South America 8 See also 9 References 10 External links History[edit] The boundaries of the Eastern Time Zone have moved westward since the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) took over time-zone management from railroads in 1938. For example, the easternmost and northernmost counties in Kentucky were added to the zone in the 1940s, and in 1961 most of the state went Eastern. In 2000, Wayne County, on the Tennessee border, switched from Central to Eastern.[1] In March 2018, the Florida Legislature passed a bill requesting authorization from Congress for year-round daylight saving time, which would effectively put Florida on Atlantic Standard Time year-round (except for west of the Apalachicola River, which would be on Eastern Standard Time year-round).[2] Daylight saving time[edit] Daylight saving time for the Eastern Time Zone was introduced by the Uniform Time Act of 1966, which specified that daylight saving time would run from the last Sunday of April until the last Sunday in October in the United States.[3] The act was amended to make the first Sunday in April the beginning of daylight saving time beginning in 1987.[3] Later, the Energy Policy Act of 2005 extended daylight saving time in the United States, beginning in 2007. Since then, local times change at 2:00 a.m. EST to 3:00 a.m. EDT on the second Sunday in March, and return from 2:00 a.m. EDT to 1:00 a.m. EST on the first Sunday in November.[3] In Canada, daylight saving time begins and ends on the same days and at the same times as it does in the United States.[4][5] Canada[edit] Main article: Time in Canada In Canada, the following provinces and territories are part of the Eastern Time Zone:[6] Ontario, most of Quebec, most of Nunavut, most of All observe daylight saving time in sync with the United States, with very localized exceptions. United States[edit] Main article: Time in the United States The boundary between time zones is set forth in the Code of Federal Regulations, with the boundary between the Eastern and Central Time Zones being specifically detailed at 49 CFR 71.[7] Seventeen states and Washington, D.C. are located entirely within the Eastern Time Zone. They are: Connecticut Delaware Georgia Maine Maryland Massachusetts New Hampshire New Jersey New York North Carolina Ohio Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina Vermont Virginia West Virginia Five states are partly in the Eastern Time Zone, with the remaining portions in the Central Time Zone. They are: Florida – peninsula and Big Bend regions east of the Apalachicola River along with portions of Gulf County south of the Intracoastal Waterway. Indiana – all except for northwest (Gary) and southwest (Evansville) regions Kentucky – eastern 60% Michigan – all, except for the four Upper Peninsula counties that border Wisconsin: Gogebic, Iron, Dickinson, and Menominee Tennessee – East Tennessee[8] Mexico[edit] Main article: Time in Mexico Quintana Roo: This is the only Mexican state to observe EST. It moved from Central Time to Eastern Time after a successful lobbying effort by tourism interests.[9] Quintana Roo does not observe daylight saving time. Caribbean islands[edit] The Bahamas and Haiti officially observe both Eastern Standard Time during the winter months and Eastern Daylight Time during the summer months. Cuba generally follows the U.S. with Eastern Standard Time in the winter, and Eastern Daylight Time in the summer, but the exact day of change varies year to year. Cayman Islands and Jamaica use Eastern Standard Time year-round. Turks and Caicos Islands[edit] The Turks and Caicos Islands followed Eastern Time with daylight saving until 2015, when the territory switched to the Atlantic Time Zone. The Turks and Caicos Islands switched back to the pre-2015 schedule in March 2018.[10] A 2017 consultation paper highlighted the advantage for business and tourism of being in the same time zone as the eastern United States as an important factor in the decision.[11] Central and South America[edit] This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Eastern Time Zone" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (August 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) In Central America, the countries from Guatemala to Costa Rica use Central Standard Time UTC−06:00 year-round, but Panama uses Eastern Standard Time (UTC−05:00) year-round. In South America, the state of Acre and the southwest part of the state of Amazonas (both in Brazil), along with Colombia, Ecuador (except for the Galápagos Islands, which use Central Standard Time), and Peru also use Eastern Standard Time year-round. See also[edit] Effects of time zones on North American broadcasting References[edit] ^ "Why Louisville?". Louisville magazine. Archived from the original on 20 July 2018. Retrieved 10 February 2018. ^ Klas, Mary Ellen (6 March 2018). "Legislature approves year-round daylight saving time—but it's not a done deal yet". Miami Herald. Retrieved 30 March 2018. ^ a b c Prerau, David (2006). "Early adoption and U.S. Law". Daylight Saving Time. Web Exhibit. Retrieved 23 April 2007. ^ Law, Gwillim (21 September 2007). "United States Time Zones". ^ "Daylight Saving Time Starts Sunday". Government of Ontario. 7 March 2008. Retrieved 21 September 2010. ^ "Time zones and daylight saving time". nrc.canada.ca. National Research Council Canada. 23 March 2019. Retrieved 7 March 2020. ^ The specification for the Eastern Time Zone is set forth at 49 CFR 71.4, and is listed in text and PDF formats. The boundary between Eastern and Central is set forth at 49 CFR 71.5, and is listed in text and PDF formats. ^ http://legacy.decaturdaily.com/decaturdaily/news/060813/zones.shtml ^ "On Mexican Time: Changing Time Zones To Accommodate Tourism". Forbes. Retrieved 29 January 2015. ^ "DST Dates Confirmed". Timeanddate.com. 25 July 2017. Retrieved 10 January 2019. ^ "Consultation paper Daylight Saving" (PDF). April 2017. pp. 6–7. Retrieved 10 January 2019. External links[edit] Official U.S. time in the Eastern time zone North American Time Zone border data and images World time zone map U.S. time zone map History of U.S. time zones and UTC conversion Canada time zone map Time zones for major world cities Official times across Canada Federal Regulations defining time zones v t e Time zones in North America Time zone Hours from UTC: Standard time Hours from UTC: Daylight saving time Hawaii–Aleutian (in Hawaii) –10 –10 Hawaii–Aleutian (in Alaska) –10 –9 Alaska –9 –8 Pacific (in Alaska) –8 –8 Pacific (other states/provinces) –8 –7 Mountain (Arizona, Sonora, and Northeastern British Columbia only) –7 –7 Mountain (other states/provinces) –7 –6 Saskatchewan –6 –6 Central (other states/provinces) –6 –5 Eastern (parts of Nunavut and the Caribbean) –5 –5 Eastern (other states/provinces) –5 –4 Atlantic (Natashquan River) –4 –4 Atlantic (other states/provinces) –4 –3 Newfoundland –3:30 –2:30 Saint Pierre and Miquelon and most of Greenland –3 –2 See also Time in Canada Time in Denmark Time in Mexico Time in the United States Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Eastern_Time_Zone&oldid=953661777" Categories: Time zones Time in Canada Time in Mexico Time zones in the United States Hidden categories: Articles with short description Use dmy dates from August 2019 Articles needing additional references from August 2019 All articles needing additional references Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Afrikaans العربية Azərbaycanca Български Bosanski Català Dansk Ελληνικά Español Euskara فارسی Français 한국어 हिन्दी Hrvatski Ilokano Bahasa Indonesia Italiano Magyar Македонски Bahasa Melayu Nederlands 日本語 Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Polski Português Русский Scots Simple English Soomaaliga Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Suomi Svenska தமிழ் ไทย Türkçe Українська اردو Tiếng Việt 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 28 April 2020, at 11:46 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view