https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Environmental_policy_of_the_Donald_Trump_administration
Environmental policy of the Donald Trump administration - Wikipedia
Environmental policy of the Donald Trump administration From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Environmental policy as enforced by the Donald Trump administration This article is part of a series aboutDonald Trump President of the United States Incumbent Presidency Transition Inauguration Timeline Executive actions proclamations pardons Trips 2017 2018 2019 2020 international North Korea summits Singapore Hanoi DMZ Helsinki summit Shutdowns Jan 2018 2018–2019 Polls Protests Death of Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi Death of Qasem Soleimani Coronavirus pandemic Appointments Cabinet formation Ambassadors Federal judges Gorsuch Kavanaugh Supreme Court candidates Executives U.S. Attorneys Dismissals Comey Policies Economy tax cuts tariffs China trade war Environment Paris withdrawal Foreign policy Iran deal Jerusalem Golan Peace plan Immigration travel ban wall family separation migrant detentions troop deployments national emergency Infrastructure Lawsuits Social issues cannabis Space Impeachment Early efforts Trump–Ukraine scandal Inquiry and hearings Senate trial Presidential campaigns 2000 primaries 2016 election primaries endorsements rallies convention debates Never Trump movement people sexual misconduct allegations Access Hollywood tape wiretapping allegations Spygate 2020 election primaries endorsements rallies convention Controversies involving Russia Business projects in Russia Election interference timeline until July 2016 July 2016–election day transition period threads Associates' links with Russian officials Steele dossier Trump Tower meeting Classified information disclosure Special Counsel investigation Crossfire Hurricane charges Mueller Report Barr letter Timeline transition period Jan–Jun 2017 Jul–Dec 2017 Jan–Jun 2018 Jul–Dec 2018 2019–2020 Business and personal Business career The Trump Organization wealth tax returns Media career The Apprentice Books Filmography Eponyms Family Foundation Golf Honors In popular culture SNL parodies Legal affairs Stormy Daniels Nicknames Racial views Residences Social media Veracity v t e The environmental policy of the Donald Trump administration represents a shift from the policy priorities and goals of his predecessor, Barack Obama. While Obama's environmental agenda prioritized the reduction of carbon emissions through the use of renewable energy and aimed at conserving the environment for future generations,[1] the Trump administration has sought to increase fossil fuel use and scrap many environmental regulations, which he has referred to as impediments to United States economic and energy output.[2] As a presidential candidate, Donald Trump campaigned on a pledge to roll back government regulations and, within days of taking office, he began to implement his "America First Energy Plan"—which does not mention renewable energy—to loosen regulations he saw as stifling businesses and U.S. energy output.[3] Shortly after taking office he signed executive orders to approve two controversial oil pipelines and executive orders requiring a federal review of the Clean Water Rule and the Clean Power Plan.[3] In September 2019, the Trump administration repealed the Clean Water Rule[4] and replaced the Clean Power Plan with the Affordable Clean Energy rule which does not set any standards to cap emissions.[5] The administration has called for more drilling in national parks and announced plans to open up more federal land for energy development.[6] In 2018, the Department of the Interior announced plans to allow drilling in nearly all U.S. waters, the largest expansion of offshore oil and gas leasing ever proposed.[7] In September 2019, the Administration completed plans for opening the entire coastal plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to drilling for gas and oil.[8] President Trump's appointments to key agencies dealing in energy and environmental policy reflect his commitment to deregulation, particularly of the fossil fuel industry. Three of the four chair-level members of Trump's transition team commissioned to draw up a list of proposals to guide his Native American policies had links to the oil industry.[9] In July 2018, amid numerous ethics investigations, Trump's first appointment for administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Scott Pruit, resigned and was replaced by Andrew Wheeler. In April 2018, the administration announced plans to undo the Obama administration's auto fuel efficiency and emissions standards. In April 2020, Trump issued his new standards which will allow vehicles to emit about a billion additional tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, equivalent to about a fifth of the annual U.S. emissions.[10] The administration also proposed significant cuts in funding for the Endangered Species Act in 2018 and, in 2019, it announced major changes in how it is to be implemented.[11] The Trump administration is also noted to have rewritten the EPA's pollution-control policies—including on chemicals known to be serious health risks—particularly benefiting the chemicals industry.[12] A 2018 analysis reported that the Trump administration's rollbacks and proposed reversals of environmental rules would likely "cost the lives of over 80,000 US residents per decade and lead to respiratory problems for many more than 1 million people."[13] Trump has pulled the United States out of the Paris climate accord, leaving the U.S. the only nation that has not joined the agreement. He left both the 44th G7 summit held in Canada and the 45th G7 summit held in France early, avoiding the environmental discussions.[14] Trump and many of his cabinet appointees say they do not believe carbon dioxide is a primary contributor to global warming.[15] Responding to a 2018 government-funded study which warned of potentially catastrophic climate change impacts, Trump said he had read part of the report but did not believe it.[16] In a White House speech, Trump hailed "America’s environmental leadership" under his watch, asserting his administration was "being good stewards of our public land," reducing carbon emissions and promoting the "cleanest air" and "crystal clean" water. Experts noted that the cited achievements were the result of actions taken by his predecessors going all the way back to the Nixon administration.[17] Contents 1 Background 2 Appointments 2.1 First EPA administrator, Scott Pruitt 2.1.1 Second EPA administrator, Andrew Wheeler 2.2 Department of Energy 2.3 Department of the Interior 2.4 Department of Agriculture 2.5 Council on Environmental Quality 2.6 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 2.7 Secretary of State 3 Domestic energy policy 3.1 Deregulation 3.1.1 Water use reduction programs 3.1.2 Renewable energy policy 3.2 Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipeline 3.3 Executive order on climate change 3.4 Auto fuel economy and emissions standards 3.5 Rollback of efficient lighting regulations 4 Proposed EPA budget cuts 5 Department of the Interior 5.1 Tongass National Forest 5.2 National monuments 5.2.1 Bear's Ears Monument 5.3 Offshore drilling 5.4 Opening the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to drilling 5.5 Privatization of Native American reservations 5.6 Endangered species threats 5.6.1 Mexico border wall concerns 5.6.2 Yellowstone grizzly 5.7 Regulation of hazardous chemicals 5.7.1 Pesticides 5.7.2 Lead paint standards 5.7.3 PFOS and PFOA study publication withheld 5.8 Toxic waste clean-up 5.9 Clean water legislation 5.9.1 Roll back of Obama administration regulations 5.9.2 Great Lakes Restoration Initiative 5.9.3 Clean Water Rule 5.9.4 Clean Water Act 5.9.5 New lead standards 5.10 Clean Air Act standards 5.11 Coal emission standards 5.12 Landscape conservation cooperatives 6 Roll back of the National Environmental Policy Act 7 Climate change 7.1 Paris Climate Agreement 7.2 Clean Power Plan 7.3 Carbon Monitoring System 7.4 2016 methane rule 7.5 2018 National Climate Assessment 7.6 G7 meetings 8 Lawsuits 9 See also 10 References Background[edit] During the campaign, Trump expressed the view that global warming and cooling is a natural process.[18] He often described global warming as a "hoax"; and sometimes attributed the "hoax" to the Chinese government as a plot to sabotage American manufacturing, but later claimed that had been a joke.[19][20] As a candidate Trump said he would rescind Obama's Climate Action Plan, cancel U.S. participation in the Paris Climate Agreement, and stop all U.S. payments towards United Nations global warming programs.[15][19] Many of his first cabinet picks were people with a history of opposition to the agency they were named to head.[21] Within days after taking office he invited American manufacturers to suggest which regulations should be eliminated; industry leaders submitted 168 comments, of which nearly half targeted Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) rules.[3] He did not attend the climate discussions held during both the 2018 and 2019 G7 meetings, the only world leader not in attendance.[22] Appointments[edit] Trump's cabinet nominees reflect his desire to scale back federal environmental regulation and to promote domestic production of coal, oil, and natural gas. In some cases his appointees had a history of conflict with the agencies they now lead.[23] Although the scientific conclusion is that “it is extremely likely (95 to 100 percent probable) that human influence has been the dominant cause of the observed warming since the mid-20th century,” Trump's department head appointees do not want to agree that global warming has been man-made.[24] First EPA administrator, Scott Pruitt[edit] As the attorney general of Oklahoma, Trump's choice of EPA administrator Scott Pruitt challenged EPA regulations in court more than a dozen times.[23] With some cases still pending, Pruitt declined to say if he would recuse himself with regard to those suits.[25][26] Pruitt hired former Oklahoma banker Albert Kelly to head the Superfund program, which is responsible for cleaning up the nation's most contaminated land.[27][28][29] Kelly completely lacked any experience with environmental issues, and had just received a lifetime ban from working in banking, his career until then, due to "unfitness to serve".[27] Pruitt said he planned to prioritize state and local control over federal land use and ease regulations on the environmental impacts of industries.[30] A March 2017 executive order allowed Pruitt to start a review process of the Obama administration's regulations of the coal industry, reflecting Trump's repeated promises to support the coal industry and "bring back jobs" in coal mining.[31] Such changes are likely to affect America's ability to meet the climate emission goals of the Paris Agreement.[32] Pruitt has said he does not believe carbon dioxide is a primary contributor to global warming.[15] While admitting that the climate is warming, Pruitt believes that warming is not necessarily harmful and could be beneficial. "Do we really know what the ideal surface temperature should be in the year 2100, in the year 2018? That’s fairly arrogant for us to think that we know exactly what it should be in 2100.”[33] Climate experts, including Michael Mann and Chris Field who oversaw a United Nations and World Meteorological Organization scientific report on climate change, disagree with Pruitt's position. According to Field, "thousands" of studies document that a warming planet causes a host of problems, not just from high temperatures but also from heat waves, higher seas, heavier downpours, and more frequent destructive hurricanes and wildfires."[34] In April 2018, Pruitt drew criticism for what some consider to be the excessive security expenditures which he had requested. Trump defended Pruitt in a twitter stating, "Record clean Air & Water while saving USA Billions of Dollars." However, according to PolitiFact no new figures on air quality have been released since 2016. To state the nation's waters as being at record clean levels is also inaccurate since while a report was issued in 2017, the information was gathered in 2012 or earlier.[35] Commenting on Pruitt's claim that his excessive security expenses are related to his need for security, The New York Times commented that the high expenses appear to be "driven more by a desire to avoid tough questions from the public than by concerns about security."[36] In April 2018, thirty-nine members of the Senate and more than 130 members of the House of Representatives called for Pruitt's resignation.[37] On July 5, 2018, President Trump tweeted, "I have accepted the resignation of Scott Pruitt as the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. Within the Agency Scott has done an outstanding job, and I will always be thankful to him for this." At the time of his resignation Pruitt was facing numerous ethics investigations.[38] Second EPA administrator, Andrew Wheeler[edit] In 2017 Trump nominated Andrew Wheeler to be the deputy administrator of the EPA. Wheeler has worked as a coal industry lobbyist, specializing in energy and environmental policy. He is a critic of nationwide limits on greenhouse gas emissions and has supported the continued use of fossil fuels.[39] The Senate rejected him in 2017 and Trump resubmitted his name in January 2018.[40] In March 2018, Wheeler commented to CNN that the EPA is "brainwashing our kids."[41] His nomination was confirmed on April 12, 2018, by a mostly party line vote of 53–45, that included three Democratic senators.[42] Following Pruitt's resignation, Wheeler was appointed to head the EPA on July 5, 2018. Following his appointment Sierra Club executive director Michael Brune commented, "He fought against safeguards to limit mercury poisoning. He fought against protections to limit the amount of ozone in our skies. He fought against air pollution from neighboring states. He’s a climate denier. So, sadly, he fits in well with EPA leadership."[43] Department of Energy[edit] The United States Department of Energy is tasked with developing technology for better and more efficient energy sources as well as energy education. Trump chose Rick Perry to head the department, who had called for eliminating it when he was running for the Republican nomination for president in 2012.[30] His confirmation as head of the Department of Energy was a source of contention among Democrats due to his previous denial of man-made climate change and his close ties to the Texas oil and gas industry.[44][45] During his confirmation hearing, Perry said he regretted his promise to abolish the Department of Energy.[45] In March 2017, Perry met with Murray Energy CEO Robert Murray and coal lobbyist Andrew Wheeler who would later replace Scott Pruitt as head of the EPA. Murray submitted a confidential "action plan"[46] at the meeting. In an interview with the Associated Press (AP) Simon Edelman, who was at the time a government photographer who was taking photos of the meeting, the actions Murray wanted the Trump administration to take "included replacing members of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, pulling the United States out of the Paris climate accords and revoking the Clean Power Plan." He said that he was fired shortly after he released the photographs of the meeting. A copy of the plan was obtained by The New York Times and the AP in January 2018. They reported that "it mirrors policy later pushed by the Trump administration." [47] Department of the Interior[edit] Ryan Zinke was appointed Secretary of the Interior in 2017.[48] Following his appointment, Zinke said that he had made “probably the greatest reorganization in the history of the Department of the Interior." Some scientists charged that some of the staff changes were politically motivated. Zinke supported Trump's plan to reduce the DOI budget by $1.6 billion in 2018, which would have caused roughly 4,000 employees to lose their jobs and a rollback of many of the regulations that Obama put in place.[49] When questioned about global warming during his senate confirmation hearing, Zinke replied, "...I don't know definitively, there's a lot of debate on both sides of the aisle."[50][51] In January 2019, Zinke was replaced with David Bernhardt, an attorney and oil industry lobbyist who had been serving as Trump's United States Deputy Secretary of the Interior since 2017.[52][53] At his confirmation hearing, speaking regarding his policy decisions related to global warming he said, "We’re going to look at the science whatever it is, but ... policy decisions are made – this president ran and he won on a particular perspective."[54] During Bernhardt's tenure as deputy secretary and acting secretary, the department embarked on a program of deregulation and substantially increased fossil fuel sales on public land.[55] In March 2019, Politico reported that heads of the oil industry lobbyist group Independent Petroleum Association of America (IPAA) boasted about their ties to Bernhardt.[56] Department of Agriculture[edit] Sonny Perdue, former governor of Georgia, was appointed Agriculture Secretary. His supporters say that his experience in agriculture and conservative views on immigration make him an appropriate choice.[57] Perdue says that he plans to rid the department of "onerous regulations" that do not contribute to a better environment. Opponents fear that he will not sufficiently address the effects that farm pollution has on sources of drinking water.[57] Speaking on climate change, Perdue says that he agrees that the climate is warming but "we don't know definitively in my opinion what is causing climate change."[58] Council on Environmental Quality[edit] The Council on Environmental Quality is a division of the Executive Office of the President that coordinates federal environmental efforts and works closely with agencies and other White House offices on the development of environmental and energy policies and initiatives. In October 2017, Trump nominated Kathleen Hartnett White, former chair of the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality, to be chair of CEQ.[59] Some of Hartnett's energy views have been considered controversial. She has "called renewable energy unreliable and parasitic" and she has "suggested that climate regulation is a conspiracy pushed by communists." Her nomination was withdrawn in February 2018 as she did not garner enough support in the Senate.[60] National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration[edit] Trump nominated Barry Lee Myers to head the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). NOAA is a scientific agency within the United States Department of Commerce that warns of dangerous weather, focuses on the conditions of the atmosphere, oceans and major waterways, and guides the use and protection of ocean and coastal resources. Myers is an attorney and businessman who has served as CEO of AccuWeather, a company that provides commercial weather forecasting services. In the past, he has strongly advocated against NOAA's capability to provide a weather information service directly to the public via the National Weather Service.[61] Myers nomination has not been confirmed and Neil Jacobs has been serving as active under secretary of commerce for oceans and atmosphere since February 25, 2019, following Timothy Gallaudet and Benjamin Friedman. Secretary of State[edit] In March 2018, President Trump nominated Mike Pompeo as his new secretary of state (succeeding Rex Tillerson). Pompeo has referred to the Obama administration's environment and climate change plans as "damaging" and "radical". He opposes the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, and supports eliminating the United States federal register of greenhouse gas emissions. He has stated, "Federal policy should be about the American family, not worshipping a radical environmental agenda." [62] In 2012 he called for the permanent elimination of wind power production tax credits calling them an "enormous government handout".[63] In 2015 he voted against the Obama administration's Clean Power Plan resolution. In 2019 Pompeo refused to sign on to a joint statement addressing the need for protection of the Arctic region from the threat of rapidly melting ice unless all mentions of climate change were removed from the document. He stated "climate change is actually good for the Arctic, since melting ice caps are 'opening up new shipping routes' and thus making it more economically viable to expand oil drilling in the region."[64] Domestic energy policy[edit] Deregulation[edit] Trump unveiled what he calls the America First Energy Plan soon after his inauguration. His administration claims that "America has been held back by burdensome regulations on [its] energy industry".[65] His main focus has been on environmental rules imposed or proposed during the Obama administration. He has portrayed himself as a champion of the environment, fighting for clean air and water while his critics say that his policies have shown the opposite of what he has claimed. The Trump administration estimates deregulation will increase wages by over $30 billion by 2024.[65] This figure specifically refers to the removal of Obama's Climate Action Plan and was drawn from a study from the Institute for Energy Research, a conservative non-profit organization specializing in research of global energy markets; the report actually based that figure on increased oil drilling on federal land and offshore, not on reduction of regulations.[66] When Trump took office the EPA focused on a range of topics including air, emergency management, land and cleanup, pesticides, toxic substances, waste, and water.[67] Trump said he would refocus its efforts to solely protect clean air and clean water.[65] This has resulted in a 31% proposed budget cut to the EPA.[68] Environmentalists, current EPA staff members, and former EPA staff members believe that the EPA would have a harder time upholding environmental standards with a smaller budget.[68][69] In a 2018 analysis, David Cutler and Francesca Dominici of Harvard University stated that under the most conservative estimate, the Trump administration's rollbacks and proposed reversals of environmental rules would likely "cost the lives of over 80 000 US residents per decade and lead to respiratory problems for many more than 1 million people."[13] The EPA responded to the analysis by stating "This is not a scientific article, it’s a political article."[70] Water use reduction programs[edit] In 2006 the EPA launched the WaterSense program to reduce water use of fixtures such as toilets. WaterSense certified toilets, for example, use only 1.28 gallons per flush, 20% less than the current federal standard of 1.6 gallons. Other fixtures and appliances can be WaterSense certified as well. In December 2019, after meeting with small business owners Trump announced he had ordered a federal review of water efficiency standards pertaining to bathroom fixtures. He said it was “common sense” to review standards which resulted in showers with water “quietly dripping out”, toilets that end up using more water because "people are flushing toilets 10 times, 15 times as opposed to once" and sink water faucets with such a diminished flow that it takes twice as long to wash one's hands.[71] At their website the EPA states that "recent advancements have allowed toilets to use 1.28 gallons per flush or less while still providing equal or superior performance."[72] In December 2019, Trump said "women tell me" they have to run modern dishwashers more than once to get clean dishes.[73] Renewable energy policy[edit] In 2016 it was reported that America currently had 264 billion barrels of oil reserves, the largest oil reserve of any nation.[74] The United States also has a vast amount of coal reserves, amounting to 26% of the world's total, more than any other nation.[75] Its untapped oil and coal resources are estimated to be worth about $50 trillion according to the Trump administration.[65] However, reports from the Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC) show that coal consumption in the US has steadily declined by about 20% over the last 10 years, with natural gas and renewable energy quickly taking over.[76] Christina Simeone, director of policy and external affairs with the Kleinman Center for Energy Policy at the University of Pennsylvania, says that strict regulations aren't the only reason for the faltering coal market; natural gas has now become a cheaper option.[66] Trump wants America to achieve energy independence from OPEC and all nations hostile to the interests of the United States to ensure national security, and insulate it from any supply disruptions and price fluctuations from the global oil market.[77] However, fossil fuels are finite, and entities such as the Pentagon claim climate change also poses a threat to national security.[78] The NRDC has argued that a more reliable long term solution would be to develop more of a reliance on renewable energy rather than maintaining a reliance on fossil fuels.[76] The America First Energy Plan does not mention renewable energy and instead reflects the president's focus on fossil fuels.[79] During the campaign, Trump praised solar technology during a rally in California the summer of 2016 but then criticized it for being too expensive and has since complained about the subsidies renewable energy companies receive.[80][81] In June 2017, Trump said in a White House meeting that the wall with Mexico should be covered with solar panels. The statement was not taken seriously.[82] The Trump administration's 2019 budget proposes large cuts in programs that research renewable energy and that study the effects of and ways to mitigate climate change.[83] 2018 US wind farms Wind power is one of the fastest job-growing industries in the country and it is producing a substantial amount of power in some areas; for example, 25% of the energy in Iowa and North and South Dakota is from the wind. Minnesota, which ranks 7th in the nation at 18%, plans to shut down all of its coal-fired plants by 2030 and switch to renewable energy for all of its power needs.[84] Trump has repeatedly claimed, without evidence, that noise from windmills causes cancer. He has also repeatedly said that they cause avian deaths, which is true. The US Fish and Wildlife Service reports that up to 300,000 birds a year are killed by windmills; however, they say that that number is low compared to other sources: "Communication towers kill 40 million, power lines kill 140 million, and cats kill hundreds of millions."[84] Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipeline[edit] Construction of the Dakota Access Pipeline (shown above) resumed under the Trump administration The construction of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access had been placed on hold by then-president Barack Obama, who considered it a major contributor to climate change due to the greenhouse gas intensive extraction of oil from tar sands.[85] After months of protest, in December 2016 the United States Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) under the Obama administration announced that it would not grant an easement for the pipeline to be drilled under Lake Oahe and that USACE was undertaking an environmental impact statement to look at possible alternative routes.[86] Many Sioux tribes have said that the pipeline threatens the tribe's environmental and economic well-being, and that it has damaged and destroyed sites of great historic, religious, and cultural significance. The tribe has expressed concern about leaks because the pipeline passes under Lake Oahe, which serves as a major source of water.[87] Protests at pipeline construction sites in North Dakota began in the spring of 2016 and drew indigenous people from throughout North America as well as many other supporters, creating the largest gathering of Native Americans in the past hundred years.[88] An executive order reviving the plans for the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipelines was signed by Trump on January 24, 2017, with the hopes of creating jobs and bolstering domestic energy production.[89] Trump repeatedly stated that the steel pipes used for the Keystone and Dakota pipelines "[Must come] from the United States, or we're not building it ... If they want a pipeline in the United States, they're going to use pipe that's made in the United States." When it became apparent that the pipes that were being used were not made in the U.S., the administration replied, "The way that executive order is written … it’s specific to new pipelines or those that are being repaired."[90] In September 2018, the Dakota Access pipeline was estimated to have created 51 permanent jobs across the four states that it passes through.[91] Executive order on climate change[edit] Amid protests, on March 28, 2017, Trump signed a "sweeping executive order" instructing EPA "regulators to rewrite key rules curbing U.S. carbon emissions and other environmental regulations." Trump was accompanied by "coal miners and coal executives" among others and he devoted his remarks on the executive order to "praising coal miners, pipelines and U.S. manufacturing."[92] He addressed the coal-miners directly, "Come on, fellas. Basically, you know what this is? You know what it says, right? You’re going back to work."[92] A Trump official said that the executive order plans to put American jobs first by not supporting climate change policies that place the economy at risk.[93] Auto fuel economy and emissions standards[edit] More than 20 percent of greenhouse gas emissions in the U.S. come from light-duty trucks and cars.[94] The Obama administration 2012 fuel economy plan called for a doubling in fuel economy for new cars and light trucks, to more than 50 miles per US gallon (4.7 L/100 km; 60 mpg‑imp) by 2025, equivalent to a real-world average of 36 miles per US gallon (6.5 L/100 km; 43 mpg‑imp). In April 2018, saying "those standards are inappropriate and should be revised,” Scott Pruitt announced that the EPA was rolling back the Obama administration's fuel efficiency and emissions standards. Democratic Senate minority leader Chuck Schumer expressed his concern.[95] The state of California has a waiver that allows it to set its own auto emissions standards, which it has used to combat smog and, more recently, global warming. Thirteen other states and the District of Columbia have adopted the California standards as their own. Arguing that the Pruitt plan violates the federal Clean Air Act and doesn't follow the agency's own regulations, in April California sued the Trump administration. Joining California were Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Iowa, Maine, Maryland, Minnesota, New Jersey, New York, Oregon, Rhode Island, Vermont, Washington, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Virginia and the District of Columbia. All have Democratic attorneys general.[96] While automakers sought a relaxation of emission control requirements, they found the Trump rollback proposal extreme and were concerned it would split the American car market into two regulatory regimes.[97] In July 2019, four automakers —Ford, Honda, Volkswagen Group of America and BMW of North America – rejected the Trump rule proposal and adopted the California emission standards.[98] Shortly thereafter, the Department of Justice began an antitrust investigation of these four companies on the basis that working the deal together may have restricted consumer choice. By February 2020, the DOJ announced it had ended the investigation with no action.[99] In September 2019, Trump announced he planned to roll back the California waiver. State attorney general Xavier Becerra said Trump had “no basis and no authority” to revoke the waiver. In a statement, Governor Gavin Newsom said, "It’s a move that could have devastating consequences for our kids’ health and the air we breathe if California were to roll over. We will fight this latest attempt and defend our clean car standards."[94] On April 1, 2020, the administration released its final rule on mileage standards through 2026. In a statement EPA head Andrew Wheeler said, "We are delivering on President Trump’s promise to correct the current fuel economy and greenhouse gas emissions standards." The administration says the less stringent mileage standards will allow consumers to continue to buy the less fuel-efficient SUVs that U.S. drivers have favored for years. It is expected that states and environmental groups will challenge the Trump rules, and a U.S. District Court will likely issue a temporary order shelving them until it decides whether they are legal.[100] Rollback of efficient lighting regulations[edit] In September 2019, the Energy Department announced the reversal of a 2014 regulation that would have taken effect on January 1, 2020, and implemented the last round of energy-saving light bulb regulations outlined by the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007.[101] A spokesperson for the Alliance to Save Energy disputed the Department's regulations, saying that an average American household's lighting cost would increase by about $100 a year. The spokesperson also said that using less efficient light bulbs would require the electricity produced by 25 coal power plants.[102] The ruling would allow some types of incandescent bulbs to remain in service. The U.S. states of California, Colorado, Nevada, Washington, and Vermont adopted their own energy standards.[103] The California law was challenged in court by light bulb manufacturers but a judge ruled it was proper under the congressional exemption previously granted.[104] Proposed EPA budget cuts[edit] Main article: 2018 United States federal budget People's Climate March in Washington DC - 2017 While campaigning for office Trump had proposed the idea of eliminating the EPA in order to help balance the United States' budget. Trump said, "We're going to have little tidbits left but we're going to get most of it out".[105] Following his election, in March 2017, he announced plans to cut the EPA 2018 budget by 31%, by far the largest budget cut to any federal agency. The cut would result in a loss of 19% of the workforce or roughly 3,200 employees, through both staff buyouts and layoffs.[106] The choice to remove the Clean Power Plan, which was put in place to reduce carbon dioxide emissions chiefly from coal-fired power plants, would effectively eliminate Obama's efforts to curb climate change. This plan would also remove the $100 million allocated to fund research combating climate change.[107] The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration provides $250 million for programs which aid countries with high risk of impacts from rising and increasingly warm and acidic sea water levels. These programs would be eliminated under the new set of budget cuts.[108] If enacted, this would mean the elimination of up to 38 of the agency's programs.[106] Programs to be eliminated included the radon program, grants to clean up industrial sites ("brownfields"), climate change research, and the Office of Environmental Justice.[109] Trump's objectives include the lifting of regulations from various energy industries to boost domestic energy production.[110] Trump asked American manufacturers which regulations made production the most difficult. The industry leaders responded, and an overwhelming number of them recommended lifting restrictions related to the environment and workers' rights.[110] In an open letter to Scott Pruitt, Mustafa Ali, former head of the EPA's Environmental Justice Program who resigned in protest to Pruitt's budget cuts, expressed concerns with how the budget cuts will effect pollution in poor and minority neighborhoods.[111] The administration said it planned to refocus the EPA mission on clean water, air, and other core responsibilities. It also planned to delegate more of the EPA's enforcement activities to the states, while decreasing the amount of money given to states for that purpose by 30%.[109] Issues like greenhouse gas emissions would be trimmed significantly or eliminated from the budget.[112] On September 12, 2018, the Senate approved a so-called "Minibus funding bill" or "Omnibus spending bill," which reduced the EPA's budget from $8.2 billion annually to $5.7 billion, a decrease of $2.5 billion or -31%.[113] The bill was expected to eliminate more than 50 programs and 3,200 jobs, discontinue funding for international climate-change programs, cut funding for the Office of Research and Development in half, cut funding for the Superfund cleanup program and the Office of Enforcement and Compliance, and prioritizes drinking water and wastewater infrastructure projects.[114][needs update] Department of the Interior[edit] The Department of the Interior is responsible for the management and conservation of natural resources, most federal lands such as national parks and forests, wildlife refuges and tribal territories. Trump accused President Obama of “denying millions of Americans access to the energy wealth sitting under our feet” by his leasing restrictions and the banning new coal extraction on federal lands. Trump campaigned on a promise to “unleash America’s $50 trillion in untapped shale, oil, and natural gas reserves, plus hundreds of years in clean coal reserves.”[115] Trump's proposed 2018 budget proposes decreasing funding for the Department of Interior by $1.5 billion.[116] Trump appointed Congressman Ryan Zinke of Montana as Secretary of the Interior. Zinke is an advocate for mining and logging on federal lands.[48] Commenting on the Trump presidency, the president of the American Petroleum Institute, a Washington DC-based lobby group, said, "This opportunity is unique, maybe once in a lifetime,” in regards to increased access to federal leases.[115] The Trump administration stated plans to open up more federal land for energy development, such as fracking and drilling.[6] The Clean Water Rule, issued by the EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers in 2015, was also a target for possible repeal. The rule clarifies the federal government's jurisdiction to protect small streams and wetlands from pollution. Developers, business, and agriculture groups oppose the rule because they believe that their private property rights are violated and that undue regulatory burdens are created.[117] In January 2018, the EPA formally suspended the 2015 regulation and announced plans to issue a new version later in 2018.[118] Fifteen states, two cities and several environmental organizations have challenged EPA's suspension in several lawsuits.[119][120] On September 12, 2019, the Trump administration repealed the Clean Water Rule.[4] Tongass National Forest[edit] Misty Fjords Waterfall In August 2019, a media report said that Trump had instructed Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue to exempt Alaska's Tongass National Forest from logging restrictions established nearly 20 years ago during the Clinton administration. The move opens it to potential logging and energy and mining projects. Tongass is the world's largest intact temperate rainforest, containing old-growth cedar, hemlock and spruce, fjords and rivers with salmon runs. The Forest Service had finalized a plan to phase out old-growth logging in 2016 and Congress had designated more than 5.7 million acres of the forest as wilderness, not to be developed under any circumstances. Should Trump's plan be successful, it could affect 9.5 million acres.[121] National monuments[edit] In April 2017, President Trump directed the Department of the Interior to review 27 monuments of at least 100,000 acres (40,000 ha) in size through Executive Order 13792.[122] The vast majority of the lands under review were set aside by President Obama.[123] In June 2017, Zinke issued an interim report as requested in the executive order. He proposed a scaling back of the Bears Ears National Monument.[124][125] In August 2017, Zinke delivered a final report to Trump. The report called for the reduction of Bears Ears (established by Obama – 2016), Cascade–Siskiyou (Clinton – 2000), Gold Butte (Obama – 2016), Grand Staircase-Escalante (Clinton – 1996), Pacific Remote Islands Marine (Bush – 2006), and Rose Atoll Marine (Bush – 2009).[126] Bear's Ears Monument[edit] Indian Creek and the Sixshooter Peaks with the Bear's Ears in the background. The names are listed in the presidential proclamation as "Hoon’Naqvut, Shash Jáa, Kwiyagatu Nukavachi, Ansh An Lashokdiwe"—all four mean "Bears Ears". Bears Ears National Monument, located in southeastern Utah, was established by presidential proclamation by Barack Obama in 2016. Five native American tribes urged Obama to create the monument to preserve about 9,000 recorded archaeological sites, including petroglyphs, woven cloth, human remains and ancient roads. In 2017 Donald Trump reduced it by 85%. Members of the Navajo tribe in particular were integral to the monument's passage. A tribal spokesperson stated that a reduction in the size of the Bear's Ears Monument would be "an attack on a significant part of the foundation of American conservation law." A different opinion was offered by Republican Utah state representative Mike Noel who sees a shrinking of the Bears Ears Monument as a victory over federal restrictions over mining and animal grazing. "When you turn the management over to the tree-huggers, the bird and bunny lovers and the rock lickers, you turn your heritage over."[123] Legal scholars have argued that the reduction is not authorized by law and several federal lawsuits have been filed challenging Trump's action. They contend that the Trump administration stacked the Federal Advisory Committee Act committee, which is supposed to be balanced and not unduly influenced by the financial interests of its members, with politicians and ranchers with a conflict of interest. An attorney who works with Democracy Forward commented, "The Bears Ears committee was designed to protect a treasure of the American West and stacking it with opponents of the monument could violate federal law."[127] Offshore drilling[edit] In January 2018, the Interior Department announced plans to allow drilling in nearly all U.S. waters. This would be the largest expansion of offshore oil and gas leasing ever proposed, and includes regions that were long off-limits to development and more than 100 million acres in the Arctic and the Eastern Seaboard, regions that President Obama had placed under a drilling moratorium.[7] Opening the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to drilling[edit] Caribou herd - Arctic National Wildlife Refuge The Trump administration tax bill passed in December 2017 includes a provision introduced by Alaska senator Lisa Murkowski that requires Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke to approve at least two lease sales for drilling in Alaska's Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR). Scientists, environmentalists and former Interior Department officials have warned that fossil fuel extraction in the ANWR could harm the landscape and the species that live there.[128][129] Polar bear sow and two cubs on the Beaufort Sea coast, Arctic National Wildlife Refuge In September 2019, the administration said they would like to see the entire coastal plain opened for gas and oil exploration, the most aggressive of the suggested development options. The Interior Department's Bureau of Land Management (BLM) has filed a final environmental impact statement and plans to start granting leases by the end of the year. The area includes areas where caribou visit for calving and polar bears who have been driven to spend more of their time along the refuge's coastal plain due to melting ice caused by global warming have their dens. There are concerns for the Indigenous populations as well because many of them rely on subsistence hunting and fishing. In a review of the statement the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service said the BLM's final statement underestimated the climate impacts of the oil leases because they viewed global warming as cyclical rather than human-made. The administration's plan calls for "the construction of as many as four places for airstrips and well pads, 175 miles of roads, vertical supports for pipelines, a seawater-treatment plant and a barge landing and storage site."[8][130] Privatization of Native American reservations[edit] Within the Interior Department, the Bureau of Indian Affairs handles some federal relations with Native Americans. Native American reservations are estimated to contain about a fifth of the nation's oil and gas, along with vast coal reserves. In December 2016, a Trump advisory group put forth a plan to privatize Native American reservations to open them up to drilling and mining. Many Native Americans view such efforts as a violation of tribal self-determination and culture.[9][131] Trump's transition team commissioned a Native American coalition to draw up a list of proposals to guide his Indian policy. According to a Reuters investigative report, "The backgrounds of the coalition’s leadership are one sign of its pro-drilling bent. At least three of four chair-level members have links to the oil industry."[9] Endangered species threats[edit] In February 2018, Trump and Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke presented their recommendation for the 2019 budget. It did not grant any funding for state efforts for the recovery of endangered species. The Cooperative Endangered Species Conservation Fund, a program authorized by the Endangered Species Act, supports conservation planning, habitat restoration, land acquisition, research, and education. The administration justified the budget change saying that it “is not requesting funding for these activities in order to support higher priorities.”[132] A senior scientist with the Center for Biological Diversity said gutting the fund would push endangered species toward extinction. “This is especially damaging because [the] funding is often the backbone of state non-game programs and helps animals across the country, from bats and butterflies to salmon and grizzlies.” The former director of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service who served during Obama's time in office said, “We were very proud of the record we set, that we had recovered and delisted more species than all previous administrations combined. And that didn’t happen by accident. It happened because we applied the resources to get species over that last mile.”[132] In July 2018, more than two dozen pieces of "legislation, policy initiatives and amendments designed to weaken" the Endangered Species Act were introduced or voted on by congress. Former oil lobbyist David Bernhardt, the deputy interior secretary, led the push to review the endangered species act. Utah Republican representative Rob Bishop, chairman of the House Natural Resources Committee, said in a statement. “We’re all aware that the Endangered Species Act hasn’t undergone any significant updates in over 40 years. Now is the time to modernize this antiquated law to simultaneously benefit both endangered species and the American people.” Bruce Babbitt, who served as the interior secretary under the Clinton administration, commented, "This is the first time that we’ve seen an orchestrated effort by the president, the Republican leaders in the House, the industry and the Interior Department all working together in a concentrated effort to eviscerate the act." Andrew Rosenberg, director of the Union of Concerned Scientists, commented, "I think the Endangered Species Act is endangered. They haven’t been able to do this for 20 years, but this looks like their one chance.”[133] In August 2019, the Department of Interior announced a list of major changes to the Endangered Species Act. Industry groups and Republican lawmakers applauded the proposed changes while critics expressed concerns as they are coming at a time of crisis when as many as one million plant and animal species are at risk of extinction. Numerous state attorneys general and environmental groups have said that they will sue the administration over the changes, alleging they are illegal because they're not grounded in scientific evidence.[11] Mexico border wall concerns[edit] See also: Environmental issues along the Mexico–United States border, Habitat fragmentation, National Butterfly Center, and Trump wall § Environmental legal challenge Male jaguar from the Santa Rita Mountains, Arizona, in 2015 President Donald Trump's signature campaign promise was the construction of a wall on the southern border. The administration has described the project as including a 30 ft-tall concrete and steel "big, beautiful wall", a 150 ft 'enforcement zone' which will be kept clear of vegetation, and a road. Critical habitats are on the border with Mexico in California, Arizona, New Mexico and Texas. The Endangered Species Act of 1973 and candidates for that list from the United States Fish and Wildlife Service includes ninety-three species whose ranges are near or cross the border.[134] Trump's proposed border wall will block the movement of threatened wildlife and interfere with the movement of animals in response to climate change and could prevent genetic exchange.[135] Among the threatened species are the jaguar (the largest cat native to North America), the ocelot (30 lb [14 kg] cats that could be making a comeback), the Mexican wolf (the smallest gray wolf in North America), the Sonoran pronghorn (related to giraffes, they can run 60 mph [97 km/h] and are North America's fastest land mammals), the tiny cactus ferruginous pygmy owl (who fly at about 4.5 to 13 ft [1.4–4.0 m], lower than the wall), and the Quino checkerspot butterfly (who fly no higher than 6 to 8 ft [1.8–2.4 m]).[134] In July 2018, citing "bypassed environmental laws, habitat destruction, and losses to conservation and scientific research", in a report published in the scientific journal BioScience thousands of scientists "expressed alarm" over the expansion of the U.S.-Mexico border wall. The report has 16 co-authors and as of July 24, 2,700, signatures from almost 50 countries. [136] In December 2018, the US supreme court issued a ruling which allowed the Trump administration to waive federal environmental protection laws to construct a border wall cutting through the National Butterfly Center in Mission, Texas. The center has been called "the most diverse butterfly sanctuary in the country." Habitat restoration has also attracted birds which can not be seen anywhere else in the continental US. The wall will also slice through the Santa Ana National Wildlife Refuge and the Bentsen-Rio Grande Valley State Park.[137] Yellowstone grizzly[edit] Yellowstone Grizzly Grizzly bears in the Lower 48 States were placed on the endangered list in 1975 because they had lost 98 percent of their historical range and the Yellowstone-area population had dropped to fewer than 140 bears. In June 2017, the Trump administration announced a decision to remove protections for Yellowstone grizzly bears under the Endangered Species Act. They argued that the population had sufficiently recovered from the threat of extinction, however numerous conservation and tribal organizations argued that the grizzly population remained genetically vulnerable. Numerous tribes revere the grizzly as sacred and they and environmentalists expressed fears about trophy hunts, livestock and logging interests, and the gas, coal, and oil extraction industries. They sued the administration (Crow Tribe et al v. Zinke) and in September 2018 they won their lawsuit and on July 30, 2019, the Yellowstone grizzly was officially returned to federal protection. At a hearing on August 1, 2019, Congresswoman Liz Cheney, Republican from Wyoming which is one of the states affected by the ruling, stated that the successful litigation by the tribes and environmentalists "was not based on science or facts” but motivated by plaintiffs “intent on destroying our Western way of life."[138][139] Regulation of hazardous chemicals[edit] It has been charged that the Trump administration has attempted to change the way the federal government evaluates hazardous chemicals that may pose a risk to human health, making them more aligned with the chemical industry's wishes. Trump appointed Nancy B. Beck as a top deputy of the EPA's toxic chemical unit, while during her previous five years she had been an executive at the industry trade association American Chemistry Council for American chemical companies. Shortly after her appointment in May 2017, Beck rewrote, among others, the regulations covering the chemical, perfluorooctanoic acid, or PFOA, which has been linked to many serious health problems. Her revisions make it harder to track the health consequences of the chemical, and therefore harder to regulate.[12][140] Pesticides[edit] In March 2017, EPA administrator Scott Pruitt denied that he had met with Dow Chemicals CEO Andrew Liveris before making a decision to deny a petition to ban Dow's chlorpyrifos pesticide that had been initiated by the Obama administration. Research has concluded that even minuscule amounts of chlorpyrifos can disrupt the development of fetuses and infants. In August, it was revealed that in fact Pruitt and other EPA officials had met with industry representatives on dozens of occasions in the weeks immediately prior to the March decision, promising them that it was "a new day" and assuring them that their wish to continue using chlorpyrifos had been heard. Ryan Jackson, Pruitt's chief of staff, said in a March 8 email that he had "scared" career staff into going along with the political decision to deny the ban, adding "[T]hey know where this is headed and they are documenting it well." Emails also indicated that the decision was closely coordinated with the White House and the Department of Agriculture.[141] Following the decision, the American Academy of Pediatrics said they were "deeply alarmed" and urged Pruitt to take chlorpyrifos off the market saying, "There is a wealth of science demonstrating the detrimental effects of chlorpyrifos exposure to developing fetuses, infants, children and pregnant women. The risk to infant and children's health and development is unambiguous."[142][143] Wendy Cleland-Hamnett, the agency's previous top official overseeing pesticides and toxic chemicals, said she first felt concern when the EPA's new leadership decided to reevaluate a plan to ban methylene chloride, and trichloroethylene, two chemicals that have caused deaths and severe health problems. “It was extremely disturbing to me. The industry met with EPA political appointees. And then I was asked to change the agency’s stand.” In March 2017, Hamnett was again instructed to ignore the recommendation of EPA scientists and deny the ban of chlorpyrifos. Hamnett retired in September and was replaced by a toxicologist who has spent years helping businesses fight EPA restrictions.[12] In 2017, a coalition of attorneys general for several states, farm workers, and environmental groups sued then-EPA chief Scott Pruitt over his chlorpyrifos ban reversal. Saying that the EPA had "violated federal law by ignoring the conclusions of agency scientists that chlorpyrifos is harmful," on August 9, 2018, the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco ordered the EPA to remove chlorpyrifos from sale in the United States within 60 days.[144] In July 2019, the EPA announced it would not ban chlorpyrifos.[145] The US EPA had also recently taken a variety of actions to regulate the use of neonicotinoids, pesticides linked to declining bee numbers.[146] In 2014, under the Obama presidency, a blanket ban was issued against the use of neonicotinoids in National Wildlife Refuges in response to concerns about off-target effects, and a lawsuit from environmental groups. In 2018, the Trump administration reversed this decision, stating that decisions on neonicotinoid usage on farms in wildlife refuges will be made on a case by case basis. The Trump decision also ended the policy of prohibiting large tracts of land to be used for the growing of biotech crops such as corn and soybeans in the refuges.[147] Lead paint standards[edit] According to the EPA, lead poisoning is the number one environmental health threat for children ages 6 and younger. No new standards have been set since 2001, though it is agreed that the old standards need to be updated. In December 2017, after Pruitt requested six more years to regulate lead levels, a divided federal appeals court issued a writ of mandamus ordering Pruitt to regulate lead within the next 90 days. The Court called the lead paint risks for children "severe".[148] PFOS and PFOA study publication withheld[edit] Using information gained through a Freedom of Information Act request, in May 2018 it was learned that January 2018 emails between the EPA, the White House, and the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) showed an apparent decision to withhold the results of a study done by the DHHS Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) that was planned for publication. Looking at the chemicals widely known as PFOS and PFOA, the study showed that they endanger human health at a far lower level than EPA has previously called safe. They have been found to contaminate several areas, reaching water supplies near military bases, chemical plants, and other sites in the Mid-Atlantic and Midwest. One White House email said, “The public, media, and Congressional reaction to these numbers is going to be huge. The impact to EPA and [the Defense Department] is going to be extremely painful. We (DoD and EPA) cannot seem to get ATSDR to realize the potential public relations nightmare this is going to be.” When questioned about the release of the study the White House referred questions to DHHS, which confirmed that the study has no scheduled release date. Pruitt's chief of staff, Ryan Jackson, defended EPA's decision to withhold the results of the study to “ensure that the federal government is responding in a uniform way to our local, state, and Congressional constituents and partners.” [149] Members of Congress had a very strong reaction to the release of information regarding the withholding of the study, including Representative Brian Fitzpatrick,[150] Representative Peter Welch,[151] and Senator Patrick Leahy.[151] Pruitt conceded that his agency should take "concrete action" related to chemicals like PFAS, but testified that he was unaware of any delay in the release of the study.[152] On May 16 Pruitt announced a “leadership summit” on PFOA, PFOS and related chemicals scheduled for the following week.[150] When the "invitation only" leadership summit was held on May 22 and 23, news agencies, including Politico, E&E News, and CNN were initially barred from the hearing. An Associated Press journalist was told she was not on the invitation list and forcibly removed from the room. CNN commented, "We understand the importance of an open and free press and we hope the EPA does, too,”[153] Jahan Wilcox, speaking for the EPA, justified the agency's actions by claiming the summit was not a “federal advisory committee event, ” to which the public would be entitled to access, but instead was an opportunity “for EPA’s state, tribal, and federal government partners and national organizations to share a range of individual perspectives” regarding PFASs.[154] Senator Tom Udall, the ranking Democrat on a committee with oversight of EPA, did not agree. He sent a letter to Pruitt saying "Clean drinking water is a public health issue that does not belong behind closed doors.”[155] Toxic waste clean-up[edit] In attempts to lift regulations on oil, mining, drilling, and farming industries, the Trump administration proposed a 31% budget cut to the EPA that would result in reduced initiatives to protect water and air quality, leaving much of the effort up to the states.[107][156] Environmentalists fear that these cuts will result in health problems.[156] EPA budget cuts are also expected to lead to decreased regulation of hydraulic fracturing (fracking), which would result in less federal oversight of clean-up projects in these areas.[156] EPA administrator Scott Pruitt hired former Oklahoma banker Albert Kelly to head the Superfund program, which is responsible for cleaning up the nation's most contaminated land. Kelly completely lacked any experience with environmental issues, and had just received a lifetime ban from working in banking, his career until then.[27] Clean water legislation[edit] Roll back of Obama administration regulations[edit] Much of the Trump administration's efforts to decrease pollution regulation involved directly rescinding or overturning pollution regulations enacted under the Obama administration.[156] In February 2017, Trump signed a resolution overturning President Obama's Stream Protection Rule,[157] after being in effect for less than 30 days. When he signed the resolution repealing the rule, Trump predicted that striking down the rule would save thousands of U.S. mining-related jobs.[158][159] The administration has also proposed a rollback on the Obama administration's extension of federal jurisdiction over lands protected by the Clean Water Act in attempts to reduce water pollution in areas surrounding toxic waste facilities.[156] Great Lakes Restoration Initiative[edit] During Trump's first year in office he called for eliminating the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, initiated by President Obama, and in the following two years he called for a 90% cut to the program. However Congress overruled him, giving the program $300 million each year. In 2019 he cut the program from $300 million to just $30 million. In March 2019, speaking at a rally in Michigan, which borders Lake Michigan, he commented: I support the Great Lakes. Always have. They are beautiful. They are big, very deep. Record deepness, right? And I am going to get, in honor of my friends, full funding of $300 million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative which you have been trying to get for over 30 years. So, we will get it done.[160] Clean Water Rule[edit] On February 28, 2017, President Trump enacted an executive order to allow the administrator of the EPA to revise or rescind the Obama era Clean Water Rule, also referred to as Waters of the United States (WOTUS), in the name of economic growth and eliminating ambiguous regulations.[161] The Obama rule placed pollution limits on about 60 percent of the nation's bodies of water, protecting both large bodies of water and the tributaries, streams, and wetlands that drain into them. Research cited by the EPA shows that one in three Americans get their water from public drinking water systems which are partly sourced from streams protected by the Clean Water Rule. These streams may be in danger of pollution by industrial and agricultural waste, sewage, radioactive materials and a large number of other pollutants now covered by the Clean Water Rule.[162] The Audubon Society has expressed concerns about a repeal of the Rule. They write at their website: "...the Trump administration’s intent is clear: to reverse Obama-era environmental protections no matter what, even if they have been effective at protecting avian and human life."[163] On September 12, 2019, the Trump administration repealed the Clean Water Rule.[4][164] Clean Water Act[edit] On April 10, 2019, President Trump issued two executive orders aimed at boosting the production of fossil fuels by cutting back on regulations he sees as"unnecessary red tape". The new regulations benefit energy companies by making it more difficult for states to block projects such as oil pipelines by using the Clean Water Act. Currently under Section 401 of the Clean Water Act, states can reject any project if they believe it could impact the state's water. Under Trump's order any decisions related to permits will no longer be made by the state secretary, but by the president.[165] New lead standards[edit] Saying "We are delivering on the president’s commitment that all Americans have access to clean and safe drinking water," on October 10, 2019, the administration announced their proposals for new regulations on lead and copper in drinking water. The draft plan includes requirements that water utilities disclose inventories of lead service pipes and requires that daycare centers and schools report elevated lead levels within 24 hours rather than the current standard of 30 days. However, environmental activists are critical of the relaxation of other standards that have been proposed that slow the timetable for the replacement of lead pipes found to contain high levels of lead, extending the replacement time from 7 percent of lead service lines each year to just 3 percent. The Natural Resources Defense Council calls the slower timetable for lead pipe replacement "a huge weakening change that will swallow up the few small improvements in the proposal."[166] Clean Air Act standards[edit] See also: Regulation of greenhouse gases under the Clean Air Act The Clean Air Act is a federal law designed to control air pollution on a national level. In June 2017, Pruitt announced that he would delay designating which areas met new National Ambient Air Quality Standards for ozone,[167] a byproduct of pollutants from burning fossil fuels that has been linked to asthma. In August 2017, Pruitt said he would reverse that decision after being sued by 16 state attorneys general.[168] In March 2018, Pruitt was finally ordered to do so by U.S. district judge Haywood Stirling Gilliam Jr.[169][170] Coal emission standards[edit] On August 21, 2018, the Trump administration announced plans to cut back Obama's coal emissions standards for coal-fired power plants, calling them "overly prescriptive and burdensome." The Trump plan increases the leeway given states to make their own decisions on coal emission standards, saying it "empowers states, promotes energy independence, and facilitates economic growth and job creation." Critics say the proposal would allow states to run and extend the life of older less efficient power plants and use less stringent emission guidelines for establishing new plants.[171] The New York Times reported in October 2019 that the Trump EPA planned to roll back or eliminate a 2015 limitation on coal-fired power plants releasing heavy metals like arsenic, lead and mercury into water supplies.[172] In April 2020, the administration announced that the EPA had changed the way that they calculate the benefits of mercury controls. The changes will reduce the positive health effects of regulations on paper and raise their economic costs so as to loosen restrictions on any pollutant that the fossil fuel industry has deemed too costly to control. Environmental lawyers say that the new method will undermine the legal underpinnings of controls on mercury and many other pollutants. David Konisky, a professor of public and environmental affairs, said, "That is the big unstated goal. This is less about mercury than about potentially constraining or handcuffing future efforts by the E.P.A. to regulate air pollution.”[173] Landscape conservation cooperatives[edit] Established under the Obama administration, Landscape conservation cooperatives (LCC) are research centers that address broad issues such as flooding, species extinction, and climate change. When Trump entered office he eliminated LCC funding in his budget proposals. However, following pressure from state fish and wildlife agencies, NGOs and tribal groups, Congress restored the LCC funding. In April 2019, it was reported that while Congress had set aside funding for LCC projects, the Trump administration had either closed 16 of the 22 research centers or put them on indefinite hiatus. Another six remain open receiving support from other sources.[174] Roll back of the National Environmental Policy Act[edit] Trump has frequently criticized environmental rules calling them "burdensome" and responsible for slowing work on infrastructure projects. In January 2020, Trump proposed changes in the Environmental impact statement process (EIS) as required by the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), which was passed in 1969. NEPA changed environmental oversight in the U.S. by requiring federal agencies to consider whether a project would harm the air, land, water or wildlife. Thus, NEPA has prevented federal agencies from dividing large projects into smaller chunks to make the environmental impact appear to be insignificant. For example, the proposal for a forest road would require that the impact of logging that it was built to accommodate be evaluated as well. NEPA also requires that the public be allowed to review and provide input on proposals. Democratic lawmakers and environmental groups have voiced concerns that Trump's proposals would gut environmental protections and remove the public's right to know and make comments of project's potential harms to the environment.[175][176][177] Climate change[edit] Although in the scientific literature there is overwhelming scientific consensus that global surface temperatures have increased in recent decades and that the trend is caused by human-induced emissions of greenhouse gases, neither Trump nor any of the department heads he has appointed believe that global warming is human-related. Speaking in a 2017 interview he stated, "You have scientists on both sides of it. My uncle was a great professor at MIT for many years, Dr. John Trump, and I didn’t talk to him about this particular subject, but I have a natural instinct for science, and I will say that you have scientists on both sides of the picture." Calling himself "an environmentalist", he said, "Everything I want and everything I have is clean. Clean is very important – water, air. I want absolutely crystal clear water and I want the cleanest air on the planet and our air now is cleaner than it’s ever been. Very important to me."[178] Following Trump's election large amounts of climate information from the EPA website was altered or removed. There was widespread concern among environmentalists and scientists and a coalition of scientific and academic groups began to make copies of the EPA web pages before they were deleted. According to the Environmental Data & Governance Initiative which tracks changes to government websites under the Trump administration, over 200 web pages providing climate information were omitted during Trump's first year in office. Other pages were altered to remove mentions of climate and climate change.[179] In August 2017, the Trump administration rolled back regulations that required the federal government to account for climate change and sea-level rise when building infrastructure.[180] In May 2019, The New York Times reported that the White House-appointed director of the United States Geological Survey (USGS), James Reilly, who has background in petroleum geology, ordered that the USGS only project impacts of climate change to 2040, instead of their previous practice of projecting to 2099. Thus, according to the Times, the 2022 National Climate Assessment, or other government reports on science, will not automatically include "such worst-case scenario projections". Models show that carbon emissions will only significantly change Earth's rate of warming around 2050. The Times also reported that the Trump administration is also planning to create a climate change review panel headed by William Happer, who is presently serving on Trump's United States National Security Council. Happer has repeatedly publicly stated, "the demonization of carbon dioxide is just like the demonization of the poor Jews under Hitler.”[64][181][182] In June 2019, Trump's White House reportedly tried to prevent a State Department intelligence analyst, Rod Schoonover, from testifying to Congress about "possibly catastrophic" effects of human-caused climate change. Trump's White House reportedly prevented Schoonover's written testimony from being included in the official Congressional Record because it "doesn't reflect the coordinated [intelligence committee] position, or the administration’s position". The National Security Council offered many criticisms of Schoonover's testimony, including a comment that "a consensus of peer reviewed literature has nothing to do with the truth." The New York Times quoted two anonymous sources as saying that the comments came from William Happer, a denier of the scientific consensus on global warming. The White House Office of Legislative Affairs also reportedly proposed removing five pages of testimony about the "Scientific Baseline" regarding climate change and the "Stresses to Human and Societal Systems" posed by climate change.[183][184] Schoonover resigned July 2019.[185] Paris Climate Agreement[edit] On June 1, 2017, Trump announced United States withdrawal from the Paris Agreement, causing the U.S. to become the third out of 197 nations worldwide to not sign the agreement.[186] As of 2018 the remaining two nations signed and the U.S. is the only nation that has not ratified the Paris Agreement.[187] Since the terms of the agreement prohibit any country from withdrawing during the first three years, the Trump decision to withdraw will not be finalized until November 2019 and then it will not become official for another year after that, the day after the 2020 presidential election.[188] Prior to withdrawal, the U.S. had pledged to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 26-28% below 2005 levels by 2025 and assign $3 million in aid to foreign countries combating climate change.[189][190] The withdrawal was supported by several Republican lawmakers who felt that backing out was in-line with Trump's "America First" policy and goals to diverge from the environmental policies of the Obama administration. The announcement has been criticized by many national and international leaders, domestic politicians, business leaders and academics,[190] as well as a large majority of American citizens (7 out of 10 according to a study by the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication).[191] Trump opposed the agreement on the grounds that it would compromise U.S. sovereignty and cause many Americans to lose their jobs. Proponents of the agreement argue, however, that backing out will result in a loss for our economy as new green jobs are offered instead to competitors overseas.[190] Trump also announced his attempts to reach a negotiation with leaders involved in the agreement, who responded saying that the accord was "non-negotiable."[190] The process of withdrawal is expected to take several years, and in the meantime there has been a vocal resistance on the state and local levels. Hawaii became the first state to independently commit to the goals initially lined out by the accord.[192] Shortly after Trump's announcement, state governments in California, New York, and Washington founded the United States Climate Alliance to continue advancing the objectives of the Paris Agreement. The sentiment has also been expressed by other state governors, by mayors and businesses, and the alliance now has 10 states with governors of both the Democratic and Republican parties pledging to abide by the agreement.[192][193] Additionally, shortly after withdrawal California governor Jerry Brown met personally with President Xi Jinping of China to declare the states' compliance with the Paris Accord.[192][194] In September 2017, some administration officials stated that the administration remains open to staying in the agreement "under the right conditions." [195] Clean Power Plan[edit] Main article: Clean Power Plan The Clean Power Plan was an Obama administration policy aimed at combating global warming that was first proposed in 2014. The plan's goal was to move away from coal and instead use renewable energy or gas to generate electricity, which would reduce particulate matter in the environment. On March 1, 2017 Murray Energy Corporation sent a letter to the Trump administration wherein they submitted an Action Plan [1] "which will help getting America's coal miners back to work." They listed their suggestions in the order of priority, with doing away with Obama's Clean Power Plan at the top of the list. Second was doing away with the "endangerment finding" in the Clean Air Act. [2] The endangerment finding is the legal and scientific foundation for climate action. Third was the elimination of tax credits for solar panels and windmills and fourth was to withdraw from the Paris Climate Accord. Other suggestions included cutting back of EPA staffing to at least half.[46] On March 28, 2017, Trump signed an executive order to officially withdraw and rewrite Obama's Clean Power Plan in what he believes will revive the coal mining industry and remove what he considers to be a needless burden on the U.S. automotive industry.[196][197] EPA staff emails obtained through a Freedom of Information Act request submitted by the Environmental Defense Fund in 2018 show that within days of Trump's announcement EPA director Scott Pruitt directed EPA staff to remove much of the climate change information from the agency's website and "[modify] search results for 'Clean Power Plan' to feature a page touting Trump's executive order featuring a photo of the president posing with smiling coal miners, Pruitt and other members of his cabinet." [179] In May 2019, Administrator Andrew Wheeler announced plans to change the way the EPA calculates health risks of air pollution, resulting in the reporting of far fewer health-related deaths and making it easier to roll back the Obama administration's Clean Power Plan. The Trump administration has argued that the Obama administration over-estimated the health risks for various environmental regulations, to the detriment of industry. Administrator Wheeler defended the change as a way to rectify inconsistencies in the current cost-benefit analyses used by the agency. The new plan is known as the Affordable Clean Energy (ACE) rule. The planned changes were hailed by industry representatives.[198] Environmentalists are fighting the administration's power plant regulation rollbacks. In April 2020, several environmental groups and twenty-two states filed their first legal briefs in an attempt to fight the administration's attempt to loosen emission standards. Environmentalists are concerned that the new standards are so limited in the pollution controls it requires power producers to install that it could hamstring future administrations from addressing climate-altering pollution.[199] Carbon Monitoring System[edit] The Carbon Monitoring System (CMS) is a NASA remote monitoring system used to measure carbon dioxide and methane, using instruments placed in satellites and aircraft. The information provided by the CMS can be used to verify the national emission cuts agreed to in the Paris climate accords. CMS has also supported other research projects including providing information that has helped countries assess their carbon emissions from deforestation and forest degradation. In April 2018, President Trump ended funding for the CMS.[200] 2016 methane rule[edit] In September 2018, the Trump administration submitted plans to roll back Obama-era legislation designed to reduce oil and gas industry leaks of methane gas. The proposed new rule would put an additional 380,000 tons of methane into the atmosphere from 2019 to 2025, an amount that is roughly equivalent to more than 30 million tons of carbon dioxide. The EPA noted that while increased pollution as a result of the proposal “may also degrade air quality and adversely affect health and welfare,” their plan will save $75 million in regulatory costs annually. Governor Jerry Brown of California called the administration's proposal "perhaps the most obvious and dangerous and irresponsible action by Mr. Trump – and that’s saying quite a lot."[201] 2018 National Climate Assessment[edit] Main article: Fourth National Climate Assessment Play media President Trump states "I've seen it, I've read some of it and it's fine." and "I don't believe it." In November 2018, the government released its Fourth National Climate Assessment, largely compiled during the Obama Administration. The report, issued every four years, is written by 13 federal agencies and more than 300 leading climate scientists. The report warns of the potential catastrophic impacts of climate change including changes to the availability of food and water, increasing extreme weather and decreasing air quality, and the spread of new diseases by insects and pests.[202] When questioned about the report President Trump replied, “I’ve seen it. I’ve read some of it. It’s fine [but] I don’t believe it.”[16] Following its release the Trump Administration criticized the report saying it was not factually based. Acting EPA head Andrew Wheeler said he “wouldn’t be surprised if the Obama administration directed authors to the worst-case scenario." Wheeler's statement was followed by an EPA press release which said that Wheeler “was right” adding, “In fact, the Obama administration did just that.” The EPA used a report done by the Daily Caller, a conservative website founded by Fox News pundit Tucker Carlson, as proof of their claims. FactCheck.Org found the Caller's claims to be "false, exaggerated or unsubstantiated."[203] In October, the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change released a report that had been commissioned by policymakers at the Paris climate talks in 2016. The report, authored by the world's leading climate scientists, warned there are only 12 years for global warming to be kept to a maximum of 1.5C, beyond which "even half a degree will significantly worsen the risks of drought, floods, extreme heat and poverty for hundreds of millions of people."[204] G7 meetings[edit] Trump attended the 44th G7 summit held in Canada in 2018 and the 45th G7 summit held in France in 2019. G7 Summits are conferences held between industrialized nations to discuss world affairs. Trump arrived late for the 2018 meeting, missing the full discussions on gender equality. He left early to attend a meeting with Kim Jong Un, choosing to not take part in the discussions about climate change and cleaning up the oceans which were being held on the third day of the summit meetings.[205] On the third day of the 2019 G7 talks world leaders discussed climate change, biodiversity, and warming oceans. A spokesperson said Trump had to skip the discussion due to a scheduled meeting with Chancellor Angela Merkel and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, although they were both attending the climate meeting. Later in the day when reporters asked him about the climate session he replied, "We’re having it in a little while.” although the meeting had already taken place. At a press conference Trump said he was "an environmentalist" adding, "I think I know more about the environment than most people."[22] The 46th G7 summit is scheduled to be held in the U.S. in 2020. In October 2019, Trump's chief of staff Mick Mulvaney announced that the event would be held at the Trump National Doral Miami, a golf resort in Florida which is owned by Trump. Mulvaney told reporters "Climate change will not be on the agenda." The state of Florida is the state most vulnerable to the effects of global warming such as rising ocean levels and more severe storms.[206] Lawsuits[edit] During its first few months, the Trump administration rescinded rules limiting mercury and air toxins from power plants,[207] limiting water pollution from coal plants,[208] banning the pesticide chlorpyrifos,[209] and banning methane emissions from landfills,[210] among other rules, which has resulted in lawsuits from various environmental groups such as the Environmental Defense Fund and the Natural Resources Defense Council.[211][212] Some lawsuits against the Trump administration's regulation rollbacks have been successful, such as a lawsuit from the Environmental Defense Fund and other environmental groups against the administration's decision to suspend a rule which limited methane emissions from oil and gas wells, a decision which was overturned by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.[213] Following legal action, the administration has also reversed its decision to do away with an Obama-era plan requiring dentists to prevent about five tons of mercury, used in their practice, from getting into the nation's waterways.[212] By February 2018, New York's attorney general Eric Schneiderman had filed over 50 lawsuits opposing the Trump administration's environmental revisions, saying New York had "beaten back" several of the administration's deregulation attempts, "from energy efficiency rollbacks to smog."[212] See also[edit] Carbon bubble March for Science People's Climate March (2017) Space-based measurements of carbon dioxide, * Greenhouse Gases Observing Satellite, and TanSat References[edit] ^ "Promises about Environment on The Obameter". Politifact. Archived from the original on December 8, 2017. Retrieved December 8, 2017. ^ Popovich, Nadja; Albeck-Ripka, Livia. "52 Environmental Rules on the Way Out Under Trump". New York Times. Archived from the original on December 7, 2017. Retrieved December 8, 2017. ^ a b c Eilperin, Juliet (April 16, 2017). "EPA emerges as major target after Trump solicits policy advice from industry". Washington Post. Archived from the original on April 21, 2017. Retrieved April 21, 2017. ^ a b c "Trump Administration Rolls Back Clean Water Protections". The New York Times. Archived from the original on September 13, 2019. Retrieved September 13, 2019. ^ Beitsch, Rebecca. "Green groups, coal companies push to have EPA power plant rollback scrapped". The Hill. Retrieved April 20, 2020. ^ a b Carswell, Cally. "Trump's First 100 Days: Environmental Policy and Public Lands". Scientific American. Archived from the original on March 22, 2017. Retrieved March 17, 2017. ^ a b "Areas in the Pacific Ocean, the eastern Gulf of Mexico, the Arctic Ocean, and much of the Eastern Seaboard are included in the new plan". Scientific American. Archived from the original on February 16, 2018. Retrieved February 15, 2018. ^ a b "Trump administration opens huge reserve in Alaska to drilling". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on October 21, 2019. Retrieved October 20, 2019. ^ a b c Volcovici, Valerie. "Trump advisors aim to privatize oil-rich Indian reservations". Reuters. Archived from the original on February 15, 2018. Retrieved February 15, 2018. ^ Holden, Emily. "Trump to roll back Obama-era clean car rules in huge blow to climate fight". The Guardian. Retrieved April 1, 2020. ^ a b Rott, Nathan. "Trump Administration Makes Major Changes To Protections For Endangered Species". NPR. Archived from the original on August 13, 2019. Retrieved August 13, 2019. ^ a b c Lipton, Eric. "Chemical industry insider now a top EPA hazards watchdog". The Seattle Times. Archived from the original on February 17, 2018. Retrieved February 16, 2018. ^ a b Cutler, David; Dominici, Francesca (June 12, 2018). "A Breath of Bad Air: Cost of the Trump Environmental Agenda May Lead to 80 000 Extra Deaths per Decade". JAMA. 319 (22): 2261–2262. doi:10.1001/jama.2018.7351. ISSN 0098-7484. PMID 29896617. ^ Hansler, Jennifer. "US, Syria are now only ones not in climate deal". CNN. Archived from the original on June 16, 2018. Retrieved May 4, 2018. ^ a b c "Trump to sign new order rolling back Obama energy regs". Fox News. March 28, 2017. Archived from the original on April 16, 2017. Retrieved April 15, 2017. ^ a b Cillizza, Chris. "Donald Trump buried a climate change report because 'I don't believe it'". CNN. Archived from the original on December 30, 2018. Retrieved December 30, 2018. ^ Rogers, Katie; Davenport, Coral (July 8, 2019). "Trump Saw Opportunity in Speech on Environment. Critics Saw a '"1984" Moment.'". Archived from the original on July 10, 2019. Retrieved July 10, 2019 – via NYTimes.com. ^ Worland, Justin (September 27, 2016). "Donald Trump Does Not Believe in Man-Made Climate Change, Campaign Manager Says". Archived from the original on December 25, 2019. Retrieved February 1, 2020. ^ a b Jacobson, Louis (June 3, 2016). "Yes, Donald Trump did call climate change a Chinese hoax". PolitiFact. Archived from the original on April 12, 2017. Retrieved April 15, 2017. ^ Worland, Justin (November 16, 2016). "China to Donald Trump: No, We Didn't Invent Climate Change". Time. Archived from the original on March 23, 2017. Retrieved March 16, 2017. Donald J. Trump ✔ @realDonaldTrump: The concept of global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make U.S. manufacturing non-competitive. ^ Bump, Philip (December 13, 2016). "Trump's Cabinet picks are often in direct conflict with the agencies they may lead". Washington Post. Archived from the original on December 14, 2016. Retrieved April 15, 2017. ^ a b Teirstein, Zoya. "Donald 'I'm an environmentalist' Trump skips G7 climate meeting". Grist. Archived from the original on August 27, 2019. Retrieved August 27, 2019. ^ a b Jackson, David (December 7, 2016). "Scott Pruitt, Trump's pick to head the EPA, has sued the EPA". USA Today. Archived from the original on August 19, 2017. Retrieved April 15, 2017. ^ Roberts, David. "The climate report scientists are afraid Trump will censor, explained". Vox. Archived from the original on February 28, 2018. Retrieved February 27, 2018. ^ Brodwin, Erin (December 8, 2016). "Trump's pick to lead the Environmental Protection Agency is currently suing it". Business Insider. Archived from the original on April 16, 2017. Retrieved April 15, 2017. ^ Dennis, Brady (January 28, 2017). "EPA nominee Scott Pruitt won't say if he would recuse himself from his own lawsuits against the agency". Washington Post. Archived from the original on February 2, 2017. Retrieved April 15, 2017. ^ a b c Lerner, Sharon (December 28, 2017). "Banned From the Banking Industry for Life, a Scott Pruitt Friend Finds a New Home at the EPA". The Intercept. Archived from the original on February 9, 2018. Retrieved December 28, 2017. ^ "EPA: Pruitt's Superfund point man penalized by banking regulators". www.eenews.net. Archived from the original on February 7, 2018. Retrieved December 28, 2017. ^ "Adviser to EPA chief cited for federal banking violations". AP News. Archived from the original on March 16, 2018. Retrieved December 28, 2017. ^ a b Lipton, Eric; Davenport, Coral (January 14, 2017). "Scott Pruitt, Trump's E.P.A. Pick, Backed Industry Donors Over Regulators". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Archived from the original on March 14, 2017. Retrieved March 16, 2017. ^ Hayden, Michael Edison (March 28, 2017). "Can Trump really bring back coal jobs? The verdict is mixed". ABC News. Archived from the original on April 16, 2017. Retrieved April 15, 2017. ^ Davenport, Coral (March 2, 2017). "Top Trump Advisers Are Split on Paris Agreement on Climate Change". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Archived from the original on March 15, 2017. Retrieved March 16, 2017. ^ Embury-Dennis, Tom. "Trump's environment chief Scott Pruitt suggests climate change could be good for humanity". Independent. Archived from the original on February 28, 2018. Retrieved February 27, 2018. ^ Bacon, John. "Scientists rebuff EPA chief's claim that global warming may be good". USA Today. Archived from the original on May 29, 2018. Retrieved May 28, 2018. ^ Greenberg, Jon. "PolitiFact fact-check: Donald Trump defends Scott Pruitt's rent, security, EPA record". PolitiFact. Retrieved April 16, 2018. ^ Lipton, Eric; Friedman, Lisa (May 7, 2018). "'Smoke and Mirrors': Emails Detail Pruitt's Drive for Secrecy at the E.P.A." The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Archived from the original on May 25, 2018. Retrieved May 18, 2018. ^ "Record number of lawmakers sign resolution demanding Pruitt's resignation". The Week. Archived from the original on June 2, 2018. Retrieved May 31, 2018. ^ Hendry, Erica. "Scott Pruitt resigns as head of EPA, Trump says". PBS News Hour. Archived from the original on July 26, 2018. Retrieved July 25, 2018. ^ "Trump Nominates Coal Industry Lobbyist Andrew Wheeler To Help Run EPA". Legal Reader. July 26, 2017. Archived from the original on July 6, 2018. Retrieved August 25, 2017. ^ Hand, Mark. "Trump renominates 'overwhelmingly unfit' nominee for top environmental position". ThinkProgress. Archived from the original on March 1, 2018. Retrieved February 28, 2018. ^ "Former Inhofe aide Wheeler confirmed as EPA's No. 2". CNN. Archived from the original on April 13, 2018. Retrieved April 13, 2018. ^ Senate confirms a former coal lobbyist as Scott Pruitt’s second-in-command at EPA, Washington Post, Steven Mufson, Brady Dennis & Dino Grandoni, April 12, 2018. Retrieved April 13, 2018. ^ Wolff, Eric. "Environmentalists: Pruitt's replacement 'should scare anyone who breathes'". Politico. Archived from the original on August 16, 2019. Retrieved August 11, 2019. ^ "Senate votes to confirm former Texas governor Rick Perry as energy secretary". Washington Post. Archived from the original on March 15, 2017. Retrieved March 16, 2017. ^ a b Davenport, Coral (January 19, 2017). "Rick Perry Regrets Call to Close Energy Department". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Archived from the original on March 15, 2017. Retrieved March 16, 2017. ^ a b document. "Action Plan for the Administration of President Donald J. Trump". Murray Energy Corporation. Retrieved October 18, 2019. ^ Neuman, Scott. "Photographer Says He Lost His Job After Leaking Pictures Of Rick Perry And Coal CEO". NPR. Archived from the original on October 18, 2019. Retrieved October 18, 2019. ^ a b Davenport, Coral (December 13, 2016). "Trump Is Said to Offer Interior Job to Ryan Zinke, Montana Lawmaker". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Archived from the original on February 12, 2017. Retrieved March 16, 2017. ^ Federman, Adam. "Donald Trump and Ryan Zinke Are Purging Climate Scientists for Telling the Truth". The Nation. Archived from the original on February 27, 2018. Retrieved February 27, 2018. ^ Neuhauser, Alan. "Trump Interior Pick: Extent of Human Role in Climate Change Up for 'Debate'". U.S. News. Archived from the original on February 28, 2018. Retrieved February 27, 2018. ^ "Democrats promise to investigate Zinke if House flips". Politico. Archived from the original on October 20, 2018. Retrieved October 21, 2018. ^ "President Donald J. Trump Announces Key Additions to his Administration". The White House. April 28, 2017. Archived from the original on May 17, 2017. Retrieved May 14, 2017. ^ James, Ian (April 28, 2017). "Conservationists alarmed by Trump Interior nominee". USA Today. Archived from the original on April 30, 2017. Retrieved May 14, 2017. ^ Whieldon, Esther. "US Interior Department nominee: Trump 'perspective' should outweigh climate science whenever possible". Politico. Archived from the original on April 2, 2019. Retrieved April 3, 2019. ^ "The New Acting Interior Secretary Is An Agency Insider And Ex-Oil Lobbyist". NPR. January 2, 2019. Archived from the original on January 7, 2019. Retrieved January 8, 2019. ^ Williams, Lance. "Recording Reveals Oil Industry Execs Laughing at Trump Access". Politico Magazine. Archived from the original on April 4, 2019. Retrieved April 3, 2019. ^ a b "Trump picks Sonny Perdue for agriculture secretary". Washington Post. Archived from the original on April 3, 2019. Retrieved April 17, 2017. ^ Lowe, Peggy. "We Spoke With New Ag Secretary Sonny Perdue. Here's What He Said On Climate Change And Immigration". Harvest Public Media. Archived from the original on February 28, 2018. Retrieved February 27, 2018. ^ Dennis, Brady; Mooney, Chris (October 13, 2017). "Trump taps climate skeptic for top White House environmental post". Washington Post. Archived from the original on October 15, 2017. Retrieved October 13, 2017. ^ Bowman, Emma (February 4, 2018). "White House To Withdraw Controversial Nominee For Top Environmental Post". NPR. Archived from the original on February 4, 2018. Retrieved February 4, 2018. ^ Hand, Mark. "Trump renominates 'overwhelmingly unfit' nominee for top environmental position". ThinkProgress. Archived from the original on March 1, 2018. Retrieved March 1, 2018. ^ Lefler, Dion (December 3, 2015). "Kansas starts working toward clean air plan that Pompeo wants to kill". The Wichita Eagle. Archived from the original on March 16, 2018. Retrieved April 4, 2018. ^ Pompeo, Mike (September 30, 2012). "Rep. Mike Pompeo: Wind tax credit harms economy". The Wichita Eagle. Archived from the original on April 13, 2014. Retrieved April 4, 2018. ^ a b Levitz, Eric. "Trump Thwarts GOP Plot to Pretend His Climate Agenda Isn't Idiotic". New York Intelligencer. Archived from the original on June 2, 2019. Retrieved June 3, 2019. ^ a b c d "An America First Energy Plan". WhiteHouse.gov. January 19, 2017. Archived from the original on March 20, 2017. Retrieved March 17, 2017. ^ a b Brady, Jeff (February 7, 2017). "'America First' Energy Plan Challenges Free Market Realities". NPR. Archived from the original on April 24, 2017. Retrieved April 24, 2017. ^ "Regulatory Information By Topic". Environmental Protection Agency. Archived from the original on March 28, 2017. Retrieved March 18, 2017. ^ a b Eilperin, Juliet; Dennis, Brady (March 1, 2017). "White House eyes plan to cut EPA staff by one-fifth, eliminating key programs". Washington Post. Archived from the original on April 28, 2017. Retrieved April 24, 2017. ^ Dlouhy, Jennifer A (February 27, 2017). "Trump's EPA Budget Cuts May Unleash a Backlash as Risks Remain". Bloomberg. Archived from the original on April 25, 2017. Retrieved April 24, 2017. ^ Roston, Eric (June 13, 2018). "Researchers Argue Proposed EPA Changes Could Cause 80,000 More Deaths a Decade". Bloomberg.com. Archived from the original on June 26, 2018. Retrieved June 26, 2018. ^ Burns, Katelyn. "Trump orders review of EPA water rules because "people are flushing toilets 10 times, 15 times"". Vox. Archived from the original on December 10, 2019. Retrieved December 15, 2019. ^ "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on January 24, 2020. Retrieved December 17, 2019.CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link) ^ "Trump attacks on wind turbines, low-flow toilets and LED lightbulbs set up key campaign clash with Democrats". Archived from the original on December 28, 2019. Retrieved December 29, 2019. ^ Egan, Matt (July 5, 2016). "U.S. has more untapped oil than Saudi Arabia or Russia". CNNMoney. Archived from the original on January 17, 2017. Retrieved March 18, 2017. ^ "How Much Coal Is Left". www.eia.gov. Archived from the original on March 23, 2017. Retrieved March 18, 2017. ^ a b Remick, Pat; Tonachel, Luke; Steinberger, Kevin; Urbanek, Lauren. "ACCELERATING INTO A CLEAN ENERGY FUTURE" (PDF). NRDC. Archived (PDF) from the original on December 19, 2016. Retrieved April 24, 2017. ^ "Linking Energy and U.S. National Security". Strauss Center. Archived from the original on March 23, 2017. Retrieved March 18, 2017. ^ DAVENPORT, CORAL (October 13, 2014). "Pentagon Signals Security Risks of Climate Change". New York Times. Archived from the original on January 6, 2017. Retrieved April 24, 2017. ^ Tabuchi, Hiroko (March 3, 2017). "Trump Got Nearly $1 Million in Energy-Efficiency Subsidies in 2012". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Archived from the original on April 6, 2017. Retrieved March 23, 2017. ^ "Renewable Energy Sector Remains Optimistic Amid Trump Policy Outlook". NPR.org. Archived from the original on March 23, 2017. Retrieved March 23, 2017. ^ "U.S. utilities seek solar power as Trump sides with coal, fossil fuels". Los Angeles Times. February 4, 2017. ISSN 0458-3035. Archived from the original on March 22, 2017. Retrieved March 23, 2017. ^ Solon, Olivia (June 8, 2017). "Trump's pitch for making the Mexico border wall 'beautiful': add solar panels". The Guardian. Archived from the original on December 14, 2018. Retrieved June 8, 2017. ^ "TRUMP PROPOSES CUTS TO CLIMATE AND CLEAN-ENERGY PROGRAMS". National Geographic. Archived from the original on February 24, 2018. Retrieved February 23, 2018. ^ a b Kessler, Pat. "Reality Check: Does Wind Energy Kill Birds And Cause Cancer?". CBSN Minnesota. Archived from the original on December 23, 2019. Retrieved December 23, 2019. ^ "Analysis | Trump says he told aide to threaten Keystone XL pipeline company over arbitration case". Washington Post. Archived from the original on March 22, 2017. Retrieved March 23, 2017. ^ "Dakota Access Pipeline to be rerouted". CNN. December 4, 2016. Archived from the original on December 15, 2017. Retrieved December 4, 2016. ^ "People at the front lines of the battle over the Dakota Access Pipeline are calling it a 'death sentence'". Business Insider. Archived from the original on February 15, 2018. Retrieved March 3, 2017. ^ "Life in the Native American oil protest camps". BBC News. September 2, 2016. Archived from the original on June 15, 2018. Retrieved July 21, 2018. ^ "Trump seeks to revive Dakota Access, Keystone XL oil pipelines". Washington Post. January 24, 2017. Archived from the original on March 17, 2017. Retrieved March 16, 2017. ^ "Keystone pipeline won't have to use American steel, despite Trump's repeated promises". abc. Retrieved March 5, 2019. ^ JUHASZ, ANTONIA (September 12, 2018). "DEATH ON THE DAKOTA ACCESS". Pacific Standard. ^ a b Brady Dennis and Juliet Eilperin (March 28, 2017), "Trump signs order at the EPA to dismantle environmental protections", The Washington Post, archived from the original on March 30, 2017, retrieved March 31, 2017CS1 maint: uses authors parameter (link) ^ Merica, Dan (March 29, 2017). "What Trump's climate change order accomplishes -- and what it doesn't". CNN. Archived from the original on April 5, 2017. Retrieved April 6, 2017. ^ a b Nilsen, Ella. "Trump just started a huge legal battle with California over lowering car emission standards". Vox. Archived from the original on September 21, 2019. Retrieved October 10, 2019. ^ Saenz, Arlette. "EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt announces rollback of Obama-era auto fuel efficiency, emissions standards". ABC News. Archived from the original on May 4, 2018. Retrieved May 3, 2018. ^ "California, 16 other states sue EPA over auto emissions rollbacks". CBS News. Archived from the original on May 2, 2018. Retrieved May 4, 2018. ^ Tabuchi, Hiroko; Boudette, Neal E. (May 9, 2018). "Automakers Sought Looser Rules. Now They Hope to Stop Trump From Going Too Far". Archived from the original on July 25, 2019. Retrieved July 25, 2019 – via NYTimes.com. ^ Davenport, Coral; Tabuchi, Hiroko (July 25, 2019). "Automakers, Rejecting Trump Pollution Rule, Strike a Deal With California". Archived from the original on July 25, 2019. Retrieved July 25, 2019 – via NYTimes.com. ^ Davenport, Coral (February 7, 2020). "Justice Department Drops Antitrust Probe Against Automakers That Sided With California on Emissions". The New York Times. Retrieved February 7, 2020. ^ "Trump rollback of mileage standards guts climate change push". NBC. Retrieved April 1, 2020. ^ Energy Conservation Program: Energy Conservation Standards for General Service Incandescent Lamps Archived December 22, 2019, at the Wayback Machine 10 CFR Part 430, EERE-2019-BT-STD-0022, RIN 1904-AE76 ^ Mufson, Steven. "Energy Department to prolong the lives of incandescent lightbulbs". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on October 10, 2019. Retrieved October 10, 2019. ^ "The Trump administration just overturned a ban on old-fashioned lightbulbs". Archived from the original on December 22, 2019. Retrieved December 29, 2019. ^ "Judge allows California's shift to energy saving light bulbs". KSBY. January 2, 2020. Archived from the original on January 2, 2020. Retrieved January 2, 2020. ^ "Trump says he'd eliminate 'Department of Environment Protection'". Washington Examiner. Archived from the original on March 9, 2017. Retrieved March 16, 2017. ^ a b "White House eyes plan to cut EPA staff by one-fifth, eliminating key programs". Washington Post. Archived from the original on March 15, 2017. Retrieved March 16, 2017. ^ a b "EPA hit hardest as Trump budget targets regulations". Reuters. March 17, 2017. Archived from the original on March 16, 2017. Retrieved March 17, 2017. ^ "Trump's budget would torpedo Obama's investments in climate change and clean energy". Washington Post. Archived from the original on March 16, 2017. Retrieved March 17, 2017. ^ a b Eilperin, Juliet (March 1, 2017). "White House eyes plan to cut EPA staff by one-fifth, eliminating key programs". Washington Post. Archived from the original on April 28, 2017. Retrieved April 21, 2017. ^ a b "EPA emerges as major target after Trump solicits policy advice from industry". Washington Post. Archived from the original on April 24, 2017. Retrieved April 24, 2017. ^ "Chief environmental justice official at EPA resigns, with plea to Pruitt to protect vulnerable communities". Archived from the original on May 6, 2017. Retrieved April 24, 2017. ^ Rene Marsh and Eli Watkins. "Source reveals EPA programs Trump's budget could cut". CNN. Archived from the original on March 17, 2017. Retrieved March 16, 2017. ^ "Budget – The White House" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on October 10, 2018. Retrieved October 13, 2018. ^ "What Trump cut in his agency budgets". Washington Post. Archived from the original on December 11, 2018. Retrieved October 13, 2018. ^ a b Chow, Lorraine (January 13, 2017). "Big Oil cheers as Trump plans to open national parks for drilling". NationofChange. Archived from the original on March 23, 2017. Retrieved March 17, 2017. ^ "A Running List of How Trump Is Changing the Environment". April 3, 2017. Archived from the original on April 10, 2017. Retrieved April 10, 2017. ^ "What Will Become of Federal Public Lands Under Trump?". The New Yorker. January 31, 2017. Archived from the original on March 23, 2017. Retrieved March 17, 2017. ^ Davenport, Coral (January 31, 2018). "E.P.A. Blocks Obama-Era Clean Water Rule". The New York Times. Archived from the original on August 3, 2019. Retrieved August 2, 2019. ^ Gstalter, Morgan (April 5, 2018). "15 AGs sue Trump EPA for not enforcing pollution controls". The Hill. Washington, D.C. Archived from the original on August 1, 2019. Retrieved August 1, 2019. ^ Petersen, Bo (April 6, 2018). "Clean water lawsuit to stay in Charleston, federal judge rules". The Post and Courier. Charleston, SC. Archived from the original on August 1, 2019. Retrieved August 1, 2019. ^ "Trump pushes to allow new logging in Alaska's Tongass National Forest". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on September 7, 2019. Retrieved September 7, 2019. ^ Donald Trump (April 26, 2018). Executive Order 13792: Review of Designations Under the Antiquities Act (Report). pp. 20429–20431. Archived from the original on May 1, 2017. Retrieved January 6, 2018. the Secretary shall consider: (i) the requirements and original objectives of the Act, including the Act's requirement that reservations of land not exceed 'the smallest area compatible with the proper care and management of the objects to be protected'; ^ a b "Interior Secretary Proposes Shrinking Four National Monuments". The New York Times. Archived from the original on June 4, 2018. Retrieved May 13, 2018. ^ Zinke, Ryan K. (June 10, 2017). Interim Report EO 13792 (Report). Archived from the original on June 13, 2017. Retrieved June 13, 2017. ^ Department of Interior (June 12, 2017). "Secretary Zinke Submits 45-Day Interim Report on Bears Ears National Monument and Extends Public Comment Period". U.S. Department of the Interior. Archived from the original on August 5, 2018. Retrieved May 11, 2018. ^ Ryan K. Zinke (August 24, 2017). Final Report Summarizing Findings of the Review of Designations Under the Antiquities Act (PDF) (Report). U.S. Department of the Interior. Archived (PDF) from the original on May 6, 2018. Retrieved January 6, 2018. ^ Okeson, Sarah. "Trump's Interior Department stacks environmental panel with anti-environmentalists". Salon. Archived from the original on December 14, 2019. Retrieved December 15, 2019. ^ D'Angelo, Chris. "Trump Says He 'Really Didn't Care' About Drilling Arctic Refuge. Then A Friend Called". HuffPost. Archived from the original on July 29, 2018. Retrieved July 29, 2018. ^ Trump begins to speak at minute 1:40. "ANWR wildlife refuge". YouTube. Archived from the original on July 30, 2018. Retrieved July 29, 2018. ^ Holden, Emily. "Trump opens protected Alaskan Arctic refuge to oil drillers". The Guardian. Archived from the original on October 22, 2019. Retrieved October 22, 2019. ^ Newcomp, Steven. "A Misguided Plan to 'Privatize' Native Nation Lands?". Indian Country Today. Archived from the original on February 16, 2018. Retrieved February 15, 2018. ^ a b D'Angelo, Chris. "Trump's Budget Would End Grant Funding For State Endangered Species Projects". HuffPost. Archived from the original on February 18, 2018. Retrieved February 18, 2018. ^ "Lawmakers, Lobbyists and the Administration Join Forces to Overhaul the Endangered Species Act". The New York Times. Archived from the original on July 24, 2018. Retrieved July 25, 2018. ^ a b Greenwald, Noah; et al. (May 2017). "A Wall In the Wild" (PDF). Center for Biological Diversity. Archived (PDF) from the original on July 21, 2017. Retrieved August 3, 2017. ^ Ruth, David (August 3, 2017). "Border wall would put more than 100 endangered species at risk, says expert". Phys.org. Science X Network. Archived from the original on August 6, 2017. Retrieved August 4, 2017. ^ Furby, Kate. "Thousands of scientists object to Trump's border wall". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on July 28, 2018. Retrieved July 28, 2018. ^ Gilbert, Samuel. "'Death sentence': butterfly sanctuary to be bulldozed for Trump's border wall". The Guardian. Archived from the original on September 14, 2019. Retrieved September 11, 2019. ^ Brulliard, Karin. "Court restores federal protections for Yellowstone-area grizzly bears". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on August 2, 2019. Retrieved August 2, 2019. ^ Online staff. "REP. CHENEY ACCUSES TRIBES OF "DESTROYING OUR WESTERN WAY OF LIFE" OVER SACRED GRIZZLY PROTECTIONS". Native News Online. Archived from the original on August 2, 2019. Retrieved August 2, 2019. ^ Eric Lipton (October 21, 2017). "Why Has the E.P.A. Shifted on Toxic Chemicals? An Industry Insider Helps Call the Shots". nytimes.com. Archived from the original on October 22, 2017. Retrieved October 22, 2017. ^ Lipton, Eric; Rabin, Roni Caryn (August 18, 2017). "E.P.A. Promised 'a New Day' for the Agriculture Industry, Documents Reveal". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Archived from the original on April 5, 2018. Retrieved August 28, 2017. ^ "EPA chief met with Dow Chemical CEO before deciding not to ban toxic pesticide". Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on February 13, 2018. Retrieved February 16, 2018. ^ "EPA Administrator Pruitt Denies Petition to Ban Widely Used Pesticide". EPA. Archived from the original on February 18, 2018. Retrieved February 16, 2018. ^ "Appeals court tells EPA to stop sales of harmful pesticide". YAHOO News. Archived from the original on August 10, 2018. Retrieved August 10, 2018. ^ Friedman, Lisa (July 18, 2019). "E.P.A. Won't Ban Chlorpyrifos, Pesticide Tied to Children's Health Problems". Archived from the original on July 21, 2019. Retrieved July 21, 2019 – via NYTimes.com. ^ "EPA Actions to Protect Pollinators". US EPA. September 3, 2013. Archived from the original on April 15, 2019. Retrieved March 24, 2019. ^ "Trump administration lifts ban on pesticides linked to declining bee numbers". The Guardian. August 4, 2018. Archived from the original on April 13, 2019. Retrieved March 24, 2019. ^ Friedman, Lisa (December 28, 2017). "E.P.A. Wanted Years to Study Lead Paint Rule. It Got 90 Days". The New York Times. p. A10. Archived from the original on May 28, 2018. Retrieved March 28, 2018. ^ Snider, Annie. "White House, EPA headed off chemical pollution study". Politico. Archived from the original on May 16, 2018. Retrieved May 16, 2018. ^ a b Snider, Annie. "EPA move on chemical study may trip up Pruitt". Politico. Archived from the original on May 18, 2018. Retrieved May 18, 2018. ^ a b Therrien, Jim. "Vermont officials decry EPA effort to suppress PFOA/PFAS study". Bennington Banner. Archived from the original on May 21, 2018. Retrieved May 31, 2018. ^ Legal defense fund in place — Pruitt Archived May 17, 2018, at the Wayback Machine, E&E News, Kevin Bogardus, May 16, 2018. Retrieved May 17, 2018. ^ Bauder, David. "EPA Lets AP Reporter Back Into Summit After She Was Shoved Out Of Building". TPM. Archived from the original on May 23, 2018. Retrieved May 24, 2018. ^ For Second Day, Reporters Barred From EPA Event On Toxic Chemicals Archived May 24, 2018, at the Wayback Machine, Talking Points Memo, Matt Shuham, May 23, 2018. Retrieved May 24, 2018. ^ Ebbs, Stephanie. "EPA continues to face questions about blocking public from chemicals summit". ABC. Archived from the original on May 23, 2018. Retrieved May 24, 2018. ^ a b c d e Greshko, Michael (November 15, 2016). "What Does Trump Mean for America's Lands and Waters?". National Geographic. Archived from the original on March 21, 2017. Retrieved March 17, 2017. ^ "Stream Protection Rule". www.osmre.gov. Archived from the original on March 19, 2017. Retrieved March 23, 2017. ^ Natter, Ari (February 16, 2017). "Trump Signs Measure Blocking Obama-Era Rule to Protect Streams". Bloomberg News. Archived from the original on February 11, 2018. Retrieved February 16, 2018. ^ Plumer, Brad (February 2, 2017). "Why Trump just killed a rule restricting coal companies from dumping waste in streams". Vox. Archived from the original on February 15, 2018. Retrieved February 28, 2017. ^ Rupar, Aaron. "Trump is making stuff up about the Great Lakes, for some weird reason". Vox. Archived from the original on March 29, 2019. Retrieved March 29, 2019. ^ "Presidential Executive Order on Restoring the Rule of Law, Federalism, and Economic Growth by Reviewing the "Waters of the United States" Rule". whitehouse.gov. February 28, 2017. Archived from the original on December 9, 2017. Retrieved March 16, 2017. ^ Sneed, Annie. "Trump's Order May Foul U.S. Drinking Water Supply". Scientific American. Archived from the original on March 10, 2017. Retrieved March 17, 2017. ^ Bartels, Meghan. "The Waters of the United States (WOTUS) Rule: What It Is and Why It's Important". The Audubon Society. Archived from the original on February 19, 2018. Retrieved February 18, 2018. ^ Phillips, Anna M. (December 31, 2019). "Trump's plans to strip clean water protections leave New Mexico fearing pollution and health risks". Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on January 2, 2020. Retrieved January 2, 2020. ^ "Trump's executive order paves a smooth path for oil pipelines". abc NEWS. Archived from the original on April 11, 2019. Retrieved April 11, 2019. ^ Davenport, Coral. "New E.P.A. Lead Standards Would Slow Replacement of Dangerous Pipes". The New York Times. Archived from the original on October 11, 2019. Retrieved October 11, 2019. ^ Press Release (June 6, 2017). "EPA to Extend Deadline for 2015 Ozone NAAQS Area Designations". EPA Press Office. Archived from the original on July 12, 2018. Retrieved March 28, 2018. ^ Friedman, Lisa (August 4, 2017). "E.P.A. Reverses Course on Ozone Rule". The New York Times. p. A11. Archived from the original on May 27, 2018. Retrieved March 28, 2018. ^ Cama, Timothy (March 12, 2018). "Court: EPA broke law with smog rule delay". The Hill. Archived from the original on May 25, 2018. Retrieved March 28, 2018. ^ Press Release (March 12, 2018). "Attorney General Becerra Secures Ruling Requiring EPA to Implement Life-Saving Clean Air Protections". California Office of the Attorney General. Archived from the original on June 1, 2018. Retrieved March 28, 2018. ^ "Trump plan scales back Obama's coal emissions standards". The Canadian Press. YAHOO News. Archived from the original on August 21, 2018. Retrieved August 21, 2018. ^ Friedman, Lisa (October 31, 2019). "E.P.A. to Roll Back Rules to Control Toxic Ash from Coal Plants". Archived from the original on November 2, 2019. Retrieved November 2, 2019 – via NYTimes.com. ^ "E.P.A. Weakens Controls on Mercury". The New York Times. Retrieved April 18, 2020. ^ Pickett, Mallory. "Trump administration sabotages major conservation effort, defying Congress". The Guardian. Archived from the original on April 8, 2019. Retrieved April 8, 2019. ^ Blitzer, Ronn. "Trump proposes rollback of 'dysfunctional' environmental rules". Fox News. Archived from the original on January 9, 2020. Retrieved January 9, 2920. Check date values in: |accessdate= (help) ^ Trump seeks to relax environmental regulation of some infrastructure projects on YouTube January 9, 2020 PBS NewsHour ^ E&E News (January 9, 2020). "Trump Administration Moves to Limit Climate Reviews for Federal Projects; The changes would underestimate the true contributions to global warming of fossil fuel infrastructure and other projects". Scientific American. Archived from the original on January 13, 2020. ^ Morin, Rebecca. "Trump says he has 'natural instinct for science' when it comes to climate change". Politico. Archived from the original on June 4, 2019. Retrieved June 4, 2019. ^ a b "EPA chief Scott Pruitt personally monitored removal of climate info from website". CBS News. Archived from the original on February 19, 2018. Retrieved February 20, 2018. ^ Friedman, Lisa (August 15, 2017). "Trump Signs Order Rolling Back Environmental Rules on Infrastructure". The New York Times. Archived from the original on August 26, 2017. Retrieved August 29, 2017. ^ Davenport, Coral; Landler, Mark. "Trump Administration Hardens Its Attack on Climate Science". The New York Times. Archived from the original on May 27, 2019. Retrieved May 29, 2019. ^ Durkee, Alison. "EVEN STEVE BANNON THINKS TRUMP'S LATEST CLIMATE CHANGE PLAN IS TOO EXTREME". Vanity Fair. Archived from the original on May 29, 2019. Retrieved May 28, 2019. ^ "White House blocked intelligence agency's written testimony saying climate change could be 'possibly catastrophic'". Washington Post. Archived from the original on June 8, 2019. Retrieved June 8, 2019. ^ Friedman, Lisa (June 8, 2019). "White House Tried to Stop Climate Science Testimony, Documents Show". Archived from the original on June 8, 2019. Retrieved June 8, 2019 – via NYTimes.com. ^ Klar, Rebecca (July 10, 2019). "Government analyst resigns over blocked climate change testimony: reports". TheHill. Archived from the original on July 10, 2019. Retrieved July 10, 2019. ^ "195 countries signed Paris climate agreement, 2 oppose it. For now". USA Today. Archived from the original on June 18, 2017. Retrieved June 10, 2017. ^ Dennis, Brandy. "As Syria embraces Paris climate deal, it's the United States against the world". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on May 22, 2018. Retrieved May 28, 2018. ^ AP. "Trump can begin steps to pull US out of Paris climate deal". Fox News. Archived from the original on November 4, 2019. Retrieved November 4, 2019. ^ Liptak, Kevin; Acosta, Jim (June 1, 2017). "Trump on Paris accord: 'We're getting out'". CNN. Archived from the original on June 1, 2017. Retrieved June 1, 2017. ^ a b c d Shear, Michael D. (June 1, 2017). "Trump Will Withdraw U.S. From Paris Climate Agreement". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Archived from the original on June 10, 2017. Retrieved June 10, 2017. ^ "Majorities of Americans in Every State Support Participation in the Paris Agreement – Yale Program on Climate Change Communication". Yale Program on Climate Change Communication. Archived from the original on June 9, 2017. Retrieved June 10, 2017. ^ a b c Bromwich, Jonah Engel (June 7, 2017). "Defying Trump, Hawaii Becomes First State to Pass Law Committing to Paris Climate Accord". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Archived from the original on June 8, 2017. Retrieved June 10, 2017. ^ New York Times, June 1, 2017, Bucking Trump, These Cities, States and Companies Commit to Paris Accord Archived June 3, 2017, at the Wayback Machine ^ Mali, Meghashyam (June 6, 2017). "California signs deal with China to combat climate change". TheHill. Archived from the original on June 10, 2017. Retrieved June 10, 2017. ^ Peker, Emre (September 17, 2017). "Trump Administration Seeks to Avoid Withdrawal From Paris Climate Accord". Archived from the original on May 2, 2018. Retrieved May 4, 2018 – via www.wsj.com. ^ Davenport, Coral; Rubin, Alissa J. (March 28, 2017). "Trump Signs Executive Order Unwinding Obama Climate Policies". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Archived from the original on April 26, 2019. Retrieved March 30, 2017. ^ Popovich, Nadja (March 28, 2017). "Trump's Executive Order Pushes the U.S. Climate Pledge Further Out of Reach". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Archived from the original on March 29, 2017. Retrieved March 30, 2017. ^ Green, Miranda. "EPA to reconsider cost benefit analysis of air pollution on human life". The Hill. Archived from the original on May 25, 2019. Retrieved May 25, 2019. ^ Beitsch, Rebecca. "Green groups, coal companies push to have EPA power plant rollback scrapped". The Hill. Retrieved April 20, 2020. ^ "Trump White House axes Nasa research into greenhouse gas cuts". BBC. Archived from the original on May 13, 2018. Retrieved May 13, 2018. ^ "EPA rollback would ease rules on climate-changing methane". The Denver Post. Archived from the original on September 12, 2018. Retrieved September 12, 2018. ^ "Fourth National Climate Assessment". U.S. Global Change Research Program. Archived from the original on December 30, 2018. Retrieved December 30, 2018. ^ McDonald, Jessica. "Trump Administration Distorts the Facts On Climate Report". FactCheck.org. Archived from the original on January 6, 2019. Retrieved August 11, 2019. ^ Watts, Jonathan. "We have 12 years to limit climate change catastrophe, warns UN". The Guardian. Archived from the original on August 11, 2019. Retrieved August 12, 2019. ^ Liptak, Kevin. "Trump departs G7 ahead of climate change talks". CNN. Archived from the original on August 26, 2019. Retrieved August 2. Check date values in: |accessdate= (help) ^ Holden, Emily. "Climate crisis will not be discussed at G7 next year, says Trump official". The Guardian. Archived from the original on October 19, 2019. Retrieved October 19, 2019. ^ Cama, Timothy. "Court delays EPA mercury rule case while Trump reviews". The Hill. Archived from the original on September 6, 2017. Retrieved August 18, 2017. ^ "EPA Plans to Rewrite Limits for Coal Power Plant Wastewater". The Weather Channel. Archived from the original on August 17, 2017. Retrieved August 18, 2017. ^ Willingham, Emily. "What We Know About Chlorpyrifos, The Pesticide The EPA Thinks Is Bad But Won't Ban". Forbes. Archived from the original on August 19, 2017. Retrieved August 18, 2017. ^ Rosengren, Cole. "NRDC files motion to vacate EPA's temporary stay on NSPS landfill rules". WasteDive. Archived from the original on August 19, 2017. Retrieved August 18, 2017. ^ Arrieta-Kenna, Ruairi. "Trump's environmental agenda is crashing into the courts". Vox. Archived from the original on August 19, 2017. Retrieved August 18, 2017. ^ a b c Milman, Oliver. "'Sloppy and careless': courts call out Trump blitzkrieg on environmental rules". The Guardian. Archived from the original on February 25, 2018. Retrieved February 26, 2018. ^ Friedman, Lisa. "Court Blocks E.P.A. Effort to Suspend Obama-Era Methane Rule". New York Times. Archived from the original on August 19, 2017. Retrieved August 18, 2017. v t e Donald Trump 45th President of the United States (2017–present) Owner of The Trump Organization (Chairman/President: 1971–2017) Executive producer of The Apprentice (Host: 2004–2015) Presidency Election Reactions Transition Inauguration Timeline first 100 days 2017 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2018 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2019 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2020 Q1 Q2 domestic trips 2017 2018 2019 2020 international trips Polls 2017 2018 2019 Cabinet formation withdrawn Appointments ambassadors economic advisors federal judges Supreme Court candidates Neil Gorsuch Brett Kavanaugh U.S. Attorneys controversies short tenures Dismissals U.S. Attorneys James Comey Pardons and commutations Joe Arpaio Executive actions proclamations Government shutdowns January 2018 2018–19 Impeachment Life and politics Business career legal affairs wealth tax returns Media career The Apprentice Golf Honors and awards Political positions Economy tariffs Environment Paris withdrawal Foreign policy positions as candidate America First China–United States trade war Israel–Palestine Jerusalem recognition Golan Heights recognition Peace plan Iran deal withdrawal Helsinki summit North Korea summits Singapore Hanoi DMZ Death of Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi Death of Qasem Soleimani Immigration family separation travel ban wall Social issues cannabis Space policy Protests timeline assassination attempt efforts to impeach Lawsuits Racial views Veracity of statements Books Trump: The Art of the Deal (1987) Trump: Surviving at the Top (1990) Trump: The Art of the Comeback (1997) The America We Deserve (2000) Trump 101 (2006) Why We Want You to Be Rich (2006) Think Big and Kick Ass (2007) Time to Get Tough (2011) Midas Touch (2011) Crippled America (2015) Speeches Inaugural address (2017) Joint session of Congress (2017) Riyadh summit (2017) Warsaw speech (2017) National Scout Jamboree (2017) State of the Union Address 2018 2019 2020 Oval Office address 2019 2020 Campaigns 2000 presidential campaign 2016 presidential campaign "Make America Great Again" rallies Republican primaries endorsements debates Convention General election endorsements debates Never Trump movement Republican opposition Mitt Romney speech Sexual misconduct allegations Access Hollywood recording 2020 presidential campaign endorsements rallies Related Foundation In popular culture filmography in music SNL parodies Trump family Immediate family Residences 85-15 Wareham Place Bedminster Mar-a-Lago Trump Tower The Visionary On social media wiretapping allegations Real News Update Covfefe Fake News Awards Nicknames used by Trump Pseudonyms Stormy Daniels scandal Trump Force One Trump derangement syndrome ← Barack Obama Category Book v t e Presidency of Donald Trump Campaigns 2000 presidential campaign 2016 presidential campaign Make America Great Again rallies Republican primaries endorsements debates convention General election endorsements debates reactions Assassination attempt Never Trump movement Mitt Romney's anti-Trump speech Republican opposition Sexual misconduct allegations Access Hollywood recording Wiretapping allegations 2020 presidential campaign endorsements rallies Tenure Transition Inauguration speech Opinion polling 2017 2018 2019 Social media 2018 midterm elections Executive actions proclamations Executive clemency pardon of Joe Arpaio Travel bans reactions legal challenges protests replacement Family separation policy Migrant detentions Operation Faithful Patriot Stormy Daniels scandal Anonymous senior official op-ed Relations with Israel Jerusalem recognition Golan Heights recognition Peace plan North Korea crisis Singapore summit Hanoi summit DMZ summit 2019–20 Persian Gulf crisis Trump–Ukraine scandal Relations with Russia Helsinki summit Saudi Arabia arms deal Syria strikes 2017 2018 Taiwan call Withdrawal from the Iran deal Death of Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi Death of Qasem Soleimani Coronavirus pandemic Communication Timeline First 100 days 2017 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2018 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2019 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2020 Q1 Q2 Trips 2017 2018 2019 2020 international Riyadh summit Singapore summit Helsinki summit Hanoi summit DMZ summit Policies Economy tax cuts tariffs China trade war Environment Paris Agreement withdrawal Foreign policy as candidate as President America First Immigration Racial views Social issues cannabis Personnel Cabinet formation Federal judges Gorsuch Kavanaugh Supreme Court candidates controversies Ambassadors Attorneys Economic advisors Withdrawn appointees Short-tenure appointees Dismissals and resignations Attorneys Yates Comey Tillerson McMaster Pruitt Controversies & impeachment Business projects in Russia Links with Russian officials Trump Tower meeting Steele dossier Crossfire Hurricane Classified information disclosures Russian election interference timeline until July 2016 July 2016–election day transition period Special Counsel investigation Mueller Report Barr letter Timeline transition period Jan–Jun 2017 Jul–Dec 2017 Jan–Jun 2018 Jul–Dec 2018 2019–2020 Impeachment efforts inquiry trial Opposition Lawsuits Protests timeline 2017 Women's March March for Science Impeachment March family separation policy protests Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Environmental_policy_of_the_Donald_Trump_administration&oldid=953254297" Categories: 2017 in the environment Environmental policy in the United States Policies of Donald Trump Presidency of Donald Trump Climate change denial Hidden categories: CS1 maint: archived copy as title CS1 maint: uses authors parameter Webarchive template wayback links CS1 errors: dates Articles with short description Use mdy dates from June 2017 Wikipedia articles in need of updating from November 2019 All Wikipedia articles in need of updating Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Add links This page was last edited on 26 April 2020, at 13:18 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view