https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Donald_Trump_2000_presidential_campaign
Donald Trump 2000 presidential campaign - Wikipedia
Donald Trump 2000 presidential campaign From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search 2000 U.S. presidential campaign See also: Donald Trump 2016 presidential campaign and Donald Trump 2020 presidential campaign Donald Trump for President Campaign 2000 U.S. presidential election Candidate Donald Trump President of The Trump Organization (1971–2017) Affiliation Reform Party Status Announced: October 7, 1999 Ended: February 14, 2000 Headquarters Manhattan, New York City, New York, U.S. Key people Roger Stone (Director) Website www.DonaldJTrump2000.com (defunct) This article is part of a series aboutDonald Trump President of the United States Incumbent Presidency Transition Inauguration Timeline Executive actions proclamations pardons Trips 2017 2018 2019 2020 international North Korea summits Singapore Hanoi DMZ Helsinki summit Shutdowns Jan 2018 2018–2019 Polls Protests Death of Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi Death of Qasem Soleimani Coronavirus pandemic Appointments Cabinet formation Ambassadors Federal judges Gorsuch Kavanaugh Supreme Court candidates Executives U.S. Attorneys Dismissals Comey Policies Economy tax cuts tariffs China trade war Environment Paris withdrawal Foreign policy Iran deal Jerusalem Golan Peace plan Immigration travel ban wall family separation migrant detentions troop deployments national emergency Infrastructure Lawsuits Social issues cannabis Space Impeachment Early efforts Trump–Ukraine scandal Inquiry and hearings Senate trial Presidential campaigns 2000 primaries 2016 election primaries endorsements rallies convention debates Never Trump movement people sexual misconduct allegations Access Hollywood tape wiretapping allegations Spygate 2020 election primaries endorsements rallies convention Controversies involving Russia Business projects in Russia Election interference timeline until July 2016 July 2016–election day transition period threads Associates' links with Russian officials Steele dossier Trump Tower meeting Classified information disclosure Special Counsel investigation Crossfire Hurricane charges Mueller Report Barr letter Timeline transition period Jan–Jun 2017 Jul–Dec 2017 Jan–Jun 2018 Jul–Dec 2018 2019–2020 Business and personal Business career The Trump Organization wealth tax returns Media career The Apprentice Books Filmography Eponyms Family Foundation Golf Honors In popular culture SNL parodies Legal affairs Stormy Daniels Nicknames Racial views Residences Social media Veracity v t e Donald Trump's presidential campaign of 2000 for the nomination of the Reform Party began when real estate magnate Donald Trump of New York announced the creation of a presidential exploratory committee on the October 7, 1999 edition of Larry King Live. Although Trump had never held elected office, he was well known for his frequent comments on public affairs and business exploits as head of The Trump Organization. He had previously considered a presidential run in 1988 as a Republican, but chose not to run. For 2000, Minnesota Governor Jesse Ventura persuaded Trump to seek the presidential nomination of the Reform Party, which was fracturing despite achieving ballot access and qualifying for matching funds as a result of the 1996 presidential campaign of businessman Ross Perot. Trump's entrance into the Reform Party race coincided with that of paleoconservative commentator Pat Buchanan. Trump focused his campaign on the issues of fair trade, eliminating the national debt, and achieving universal healthcare as outlined in the campaign companion piece The America We Deserve, released in January 2000. He named media proprietor Oprah Winfrey as his ideal running mate and said he would instantly marry his girlfriend, Melania Knauss, to make her First Lady. Critics questioned the seriousness of Trump's campaign and speculated that it was a tactic to strengthen his brand and sell books. Trump defended his candidacy as a serious endeavor and proclaimed that he had a chance to win the election. Although he never expanded the campaign beyond the exploratory phase, Trump made numerous media appearances as a candidate, traveled to campaign events in Florida, California, and Minnesota, and qualified for two presidential primaries. Veteran campaign strategist and longtime Trump aide Roger Stone was hired as director of the exploratory committee. Internal conflict caused Ventura to exit the Reform Party in February 2000, removing Trump's most vocal proponent. Trump officially ended his campaign on the February 14, 2000 airing of The Today Show. Although he believed he could still win the Reform Party presidential nomination, he felt the party was too dysfunctional to support his campaign and enable a win in the general election. A poll matching Trump against likely Republican nominee George W. Bush and likely Democratic nominee Al Gore showed Trump with seven percent support. Despite his withdrawal, Trump won both primaries for which he qualified. Buchanan would go on to win the nomination of the Reform Party. After the election, Trump gained greater fame as the host of The Apprentice. He seriously considered running as a Republican in the 2012 presidential election but decided against it. Four years later, he initiated a full-scale presidential campaign, became the Republican Party's 2016 presidential nominee and was elected the 45th president of the United States. Contents 1 Background 2 Early stages 3 Announcement 4 Primary campaign 4.1 October 1999 4.2 November 1999 4.3 December 1999 4.4 January 2000 4.5 February 2000 5 Withdrawal 6 Results 7 Aftermath 8 References 9 External links Background[edit] Donald Trump with President Ronald Reagan in 1987, when Trump first considered running for president. Real estate magnate Donald Trump, head of The Trump Organization since 1971, first dabbled in presidential politics in the early summer of 1987. Republican political organizer Mike Dunbar, unimpressed with the candidates for the 1988 Republican presidential nomination, founded the "Draft Trump for President" organization. Believing Trump had the makings of a president, Dunbar pitched Trump the idea of speaking at an event for Republican candidates in the first-in-the-nation primary state of New Hampshire. According to Dunbar in a later interview, Trump was receptive to this idea.[1] Then a registered Democrat, Trump officially changed his registration to Republican in July 1987.[2] Speculation that he would actually run for president intensified when he purchased $94,801 worth of full-page advertisements in The New York Times, Boston Globe, and The Washington Post with the heading "There's nothing wrong with America's Foreign Defense Policy that a little backbone can't cure." The advertisements reflected Trump's concerns that Japan, Saudi Arabia, and Kuwait were taking advantage of American money and protection without providing any benefit to the United States.[3] The next month, as Dunbar had proposed, Trump appeared at a Rotary Club luncheon in New Hampshire. There, he delivered what The New York Times described as an "impassioned speech," in which he expressed concern about the United States being "pushed around" by its allies and proposed that "these countries that are ripping us off pay off the $200 billion deficit." In the audience, college students held placards reading "Trump for President." Nevertheless, Trump proclaimed, "I'm not here because I'm running for President. I'm here because I'm tired of our country being kicked around and I want to get my ideas across."[4] Later, Trump appeared on the Phil Donahue Show. After the appearance, he received a letter from former President Richard Nixon in which Nixon explained that his wife Pat, "an expert on politics," had seen Trump on the show and "predicts that whenever you decide to run for office you will be a winner!"[5] In November 1987, Trump released The Art of the Deal, which became a New York Times bestseller.[6] Months later, during an April 1988 appearance on The Oprah Winfrey Show,[7] Trump discussed his displeasure with the United States' status as a "debtor nation" and its seeming inability to compete with Japan. Winfrey asked Trump if he would ever run for president. He replied, "Probably not, but I do get tired of seeing the country get ripped off ... I just don't think I have the inclination to do it." Furthermore, he asserted that if he ever did run, he would win the election.[8] He later appeared at the 1988 Republican National Convention. In an interview on the floor, NBC News reporter Chris Wallace asked whether Trump's visit to his first national convention would induce him to "take the plunge" into a presidential campaign. In response, Trump downplayed his prior exploration into presidential politics, though repeated that he would win if he ever ran, and praised then-presumptive Republican presidential nominee George H. W. Bush.[9] During another convention interview on Larry King Live, Trump said, "I doubt I'll ever be involved in politics beyond what I do right now."[10] Talk of a potential Trump candidacy grew silent for much of the next decade. Trump with President Bill Clinton at Trump Tower in 2000 In 1995, industrialist Ross Perot, who had received 18.9 percent of the vote during his Independent 1992 run for president, formed the Reform Party of the United States of America.[11] Although Perot won the party's 1996 nomination and garnered 8.4 percent of the popular vote, rifts had begun forming within the party. Former Colorado Governor Richard Lamm, who unsuccessfully challenged Perot for the 1996 presidential nomination, accused Perot of using the party as a personal vehicle, and broke off with his supporters to form a new party.[12] In 1998, former professional wrestler Jesse Ventura was elected Governor of Minnesota as a member of the Reform Party—the party's most significant victory—but Perot and his followers were not receptive to Ventura and his political allies.[13] The Perot faction adamantly, though unsuccessfully, attempted to prevent the election of Ventura supporter Jack Gargan as party chairman in 1999 when Perot backer Russ Verney chose not to stand for re-election for his term ending January 1, 2000.[14] Opting not to run for president himself in 2000,[13] Ventura searched for candidates.[15] Initially, he courted WWF Board Member and former Connecticut governor Lowell P. Weicker, Jr.. He then turned to Donald Trump. Early stages[edit] In 1999, The New York Times reported that Jesse Ventura first approached Trump about a possible 2000 presidential run while both were in attendance at a wrestling event in Atlantic City.[16] But Trump's ambitions may have formed earlier. The America We Deserve co-writer Dave Shiflett said Trump first thought about running in late 1998, when he looked at his political advantages in money and name recognition, and concluded that he was "at least as competent" as then President Bill Clinton.[17] According to Shiflett, this prompted Trump to ask top aide Roger Stone to find the "most eminent hack writer in America" to put Trump's political ideas into a book. Stone reached out to Shiflett, a contributor to The American Spectator. In spring 1999, Shiflett met with Trump about the project that would later become The America We Deserve. During the initial meeting, Shiflett claims Trump raised concerns about a suitcase bomb destroying Manhattan.[17] Minnesota Governor Jesse Ventura privately encouraged Trump to run. In July 1999, the Democratic[18] polling firm Schroth and Associates conducted a poll of 400 Reform Party leaders[19] and found Trump tied for third place for the Reform Party presidential nomination.[18] Both the Reform Party and Trump denied having commissioned the poll.[19] Days later, Newsweek raised speculation[19] when it cited an unnamed "close friend" of Trump who said Trump was "toying" with the idea of a presidential campaign, allegedly in response to rumors of Ventura's courting of Weicker for a run. Trump purportedly held a grudge against Weicker for blocking his plans to build a casino in Bridgeport[20] in 1994. The two had an exchange of insults in which Weicker labeled Trump a "dirt bag" and Trump referred to Weicker as "a fat slob who couldn't get elected dog catcher."[18] In response to the Newsweek report, Trump sent out a press release in which he criticized the two party system, praised the Reform Party, and stated "If the Reform Party nominated me, I would probably run and probably win." However, he added that if the party nominated him, he would ask for "an immediate recount."[18] In an interview, he told The New York Times, "I'm honored and I'm flattered [by the speculation], but the fact is I've never had more fun than I'm having right now, building the most spectacular buildings in New York."[18] Chairman Verney denied that the Reform Party had any interest in Trump, explaining that party members had "never spent one second thinking about him." [19] A CNN-Time poll conducted later in July showed Trump with seven percent support nationally in a match up against Republican candidate George W. Bush and Vice President Al Gore.[21] Two months later, amid reports that paleoconservative political commentator and adviser Pat Buchanan was about to join the Reform Party to seek the nomination, Trump announced that he would consider running as a sign of respect for Ventura. He labeled the views of Buchanan as "prehistoric",[22] and commented that even though he liked Pat, "I'm on the conservative side, but Buchanan is Attila the Hun."[23] He expected that a primary battle between the two would be "nasty."[24] According to columnist Robert Novak, Bush operatives concerned about a third party run by Buchanan contacted Ventura indirectly about preventing Buchanan's nomination. Novak argued that Trump "seems a bad match with Perot's party, but he may be the GOP's last hope to stop Buchanan."[25] When Weicker decided not to seek the party's nomination due to internal bickering, Ventura reportedly went all in for Trump.[26] The media capitalized on a potential Trump versus Buchanan challenge,[24] and Saturday Night Live satirized it with a skit in which Darrell Hammond portraying Trump and Chris Parnell as Buchanan pitched their candidacies to Ross Perot, played by Cheri Oteri. The segment also featured an appearance by Will Ferrell as Ventura.[27][28] Trump further increased speculation of a full-scale campaign when his publisher Renaissance Books announced a January 2000 release date for The America We Deserve. The publisher's press release announced a book tour and teased, "Donald Trump for President? Run or not, Donald Trump's ideas will have a major impact on the next presidential election."[29] Trump set January also as the month on which he would decide whether to run. He expressed, "I'm not interested in being the [third-party] candidate who gets the most votes in the history of the world outside of the Democratic and Republican parties, I would only consider this if I thought I could win."[30] On September 30, Trump wrote an opinion piece in the Wall Street Journal titled, "America Needs a President Like Me" in which he argued that he would be "the kind of president America needs in the new millennium." He cited the "repugnant" comments of Buchanan and Ventura's personal encouragement as factors contributing to his decision.[31] In an October 6 interview on Dateline NBC, Trump affirmed that he was "very serious" about his run.[32] Announcement[edit] Melania Knauss was touted as Trump's potential First Lady. On October 7, Trump announced on Larry King Live that he planned to form an exploratory committee to explore a Reform Party presidential bid.[33][34] It was reported on the same day that the committee had been formed. Trump planned to use the committee, not to raise money—he would personally fund his campaign—but to advise him on political matters in preparation for a run. In the interview with Larry King, Trump was optimistic about his chances indicating a "very strong possibility" of victory.[35] He referenced a non-scientific National Enquirer poll of 100 individuals, showing him in first place against his Democratic and Republican counterparts.[21] When pressed, Trump identified Oprah Winfrey as his ideal choice for a running mate,[36] describing her as "somebody that is very special," and that if she agreed to run, "she'd be fantastic ... she's popular, she's brilliant, she's a wonderful woman."[37] Oprah's spokesperson later responded "Oprah is not running ... at this point in time."[38] Trump labeled Rudy Giuliani the greatest Mayor of New York and spoke admirably of Presidents Dwight Eisenhower and Ronald Reagan, saying that Reagan had a demeanor that contributed to a phenomenal spirit in the nation. Trump argued that President Bill Clinton could have been a great president, but destroyed his legacy with the Lewinsky scandal. As for the Reform Party, Trump offered praise for both Perot and Ventura, and attacked potential primary opponent Buchanan as someone "enamored" with Adolf Hitler, based on Buchanan's thesis that Hitler presented no military threat to the United States ahead of World War II.[37] On the issues, Trump labeled himself "very conservative," but described his views on healthcare as "quite liberal" and "getting much more liberal", explaining "I believe in universal health care. I believe in whatever it takes to make people well and better. ... [I]t's an entitlement to this country if we're going to have a great country." He expressed opposition to NAFTA, gun control, and said he would like to see alcohol corporations sued in the same manner as tobacco corporations. For his first presidential term, he proclaimed, "I want to do the right job: straighten out Social Security, get the trade deficits in order, and lower taxes."[37] As for the lack of a first lady, Trump said he could solve the issue "in 24 hours" by marrying his 29-year-old girlfriend, model Melania Knauss. In a later interview, Knauss said she would marry Trump under such notice.[39] In the role, she said, "I would be very traditional. Like Betty Ford or Jackie Kennedy. I would support him."[40] Trump described Knauss as "a woman of great style and elegance ... very poised and gracious and able to get along with everyone."[39] After the announcement, Trump and Knauss had dinner with Ventura and were joined by actor Woody Harrelson.[38] Ventura later commented that Trump's chances of success depended on his impression of the Reform Party.[21] Onlookers questioned Trump's motive in running. Democratic pollster Harrison Hickman expressed doubts about the authenticity of Trump's campaign, saying "It's all marketing of his name."[38] Matt Bai of Newsweek commented "Most serious-minded people think Trump's flirtation with the Reform Party's presidential nomination is just a publicity stunt."[41] Ex-wife Ivana Trump doubted he would actually run.[42] Former New York City Mayor Ed Koch commented that people would likely not flock to Trump's campaign, suggesting that Trump was merchandising his brand.[43] Trump disagreed with the critics, arguing that even though his sales had increased as a result of media coverage, he was serious about the campaign.[41] Roger Stone was hired as director of the exploratory committee.[44] Primary campaign[edit] October 1999[edit] Pat Buchanan, Trump's main rival for the Reform Party nomination Trump's announcement made way for the anticipated Buchanan–Trump primary contest with Buchanan himself moving closer to mounting a Reform Party bid. Buchanan announced he would decide whether to join the race by late October. A Schroth and Associates poll of 500 people who voted for Perot in 1996, showed Buchanan with a slight edge over Trump, 32 percent to 29 percent.[43] Although Ventura wished to prevent a Buchanan nomination, he did not publicly endorse Trump. Some of Ventura's advisers were skeptical of Trump's campaign and wanted Ventura to leave the party if a Buchanan nomination appeared imminent.[41] Ventura's place in the party had become a subject of controversy. Chairman Verney asked Ventura to leave the party in early October after Ventura commented in a Playboy interview that "organized religion is a sham and a crutch."[45] Perot also decided not to make an endorsement during the primary campaign, despite Buchanan's plea that Perot publicly support his entrance into the race.[43] Before Trump could venture out on the campaign trail, he had to tend to some personal matters. In an interview with The Daily Telegraph, Marla Maples, Trump's second ex-wife, threatened to reveal what Trump "is really like" if he chose to run for president in the general election. In response, Trump withheld $1.5 million in alimony he owed Maples, claiming she was in violation of the confidentiality agreement in the couple's divorce decree. After a Manhattan judge refused to hear the matter, a brief conference was held, wherein the judge's law secretary advised Trump to pay the alimony and advised Maples that further incidents would be cause for the judge to reconsider hearing the matter.[46] Trump's attorneys were satisfied that the meeting would cause Maples to rethink making any public statements on her marriage to Trump.[47] On October 24, Trump appeared on Meet the Press, where he announced that he would officially join the Reform Party. During the interview, Trump questioned why a politician was better suited to be president than him, commenting "I understand this stuff." He said that the Republican Party has become "too crazy right." Notably, he identified Buchanan as a "Hitler-lover" and mused, "I guess he's an anti-Semite . . . He doesn't like the blacks, he doesn't like the gays. It's just incredible that anybody could embrace this guy."[48] As for his reputation as a womanizer, Trump said he would not run if he believed it would be an impediment.[48] The next day, Trump formally joined the Reform Party, changing his voter registration from Republican to Independence Party, the New York affiliate of the Reform Party. On the same day, Buchanan announced that he too would leave the Republican Party to join with the Reform Party and attempt to obtain its presidential nomination.[49] Buchanan said he refused to engage in a "name-calling" contest with Trump but made a thinly veiled attack against Trump's wealth, arguing, "I don't believe the Reform Party nomination can be bought, and I don't believe the Presidency can be bought."[48] On Face the Nation, Pat Choate, the Reform Party's 1996 vice presidential nominee, said Trump would "make a good candidate," but argued that Buchanan could challenge Trump "on the merits" and that Trump and the media were misrepresenting Buchanan's views through "hate politics." Other party members expressed reservations about Trump's comments and personal life.[48][50] Verney wondered "what the compelling reason is for him to seek the presidency."[51] Trump acknowledged himself as "certainly controversial" but labeled himself as "a great businessman," who would "make the greatest treaties that this country's seen in a long time."[52] On Fox News Sunday, he criticized U.S. Trade Representative Charlene Barshefsky and said that as president he himself would fill the position and negotiate trade deals with other countries. He identified France, Japan, Germany, and Saudi Arabia as nations taking advantage of badly negotiated trade deals with the United States.[53] November 1999[edit] In an effort speculated to implore the media to view the campaign more seriously,[54] Trump rolled out a tax proposal that became the subject of attention. In a series of telephone interviews in early November,[54] Trump proposed a one-time 14.25 percent "net worth tax" that would apply to individuals and trusts with assets greater than $10 million. The plan was meant to raise $5.7 trillion in revenue to wipe out the national debt, estimated at the time to be $5.66 trillion. The plan exempted one's homestead from the calculation. Trump estimated that the tax would only apply to one percent of the population and that the remaining 99 percent would receive a federal income tax cut as well as an elimination of the estate tax. He projected a 35 to 40 percent increase in economic activity as a result and eliminate $200 billion in federal interest payments, half of which would be used to fund middle class tax cuts and the rest to allocate for Social Security.[55] The original plan provided only one year for taxpayers to pay the new tax, but that was later increased to 10 years. Economists predicted that enactment of the plan would "risk capital flight"[56] and "prick" the stock market bubble.[54][57] Bruce Bartlett of the National Center for Policy Analysis wrote in the Wall Street Journal that the proposed rate would fall short of its goal and that at any rate, would introduce "devastating" disruption to the economic system.[58] Tax attorney Robert L. Sommers, writing in the San Francisco Chronicle, argued that many wealthy people lacked sufficient cash on hand to pay the tax and that doing so would lead to the mass liquidation of assets, "roil[ing] the stock and real estate markets."[59] Trump defended his plan, rejecting the speculation that it would be "a shock to the system."[54] Roger Stone noted that Trump had been thinking about the plan for a while and that he felt so strong about it that he was willing to pay $725 million of his own money in taxes under it.[59] CBS News speculated that the plan meant to appeal to middle and lower class Americans.[54] Trump's tax plan differed significantly from the plan put forward by Reform Party rival Buchanan, who had called for a 16 percent flat tax on earnings over $35,000.[54] I think the only difference between me and the other candidates is that I'm more honest and my women are more beautiful. Donald Trump[60] Despite the discussion of substantive issues, the campaign's seriousness continued to come under attack. Ed Koch elevated his criticisms of the campaign, calling it "fraudulent" and arguing that Trump is the "greatest con artist in the world when it comes to trumpeting his own name . . . . [M]y gut tells me that he knows nothing [about policy]."[61] Former White House adviser Dick Morris said "I think he's mainly selling books." Republican strategist Ed Rollins questioned whether Trump could "say the right things" or "be willing to let somebody put an organization together." A New York Daily News/WNBC-TV poll showed that 74% of New Yorkers believed the campaign was being used only for Trump "to promote himself." Roger Stone commented that the perception problem would "solve itself" once the campaign would reveal the number of petition signatures it collected.[62] By mid-November, the campaign started receiving advice from political consultant Douglas Friedline, who ran Ventura's successful 1998 gubernatorial campaign. Upon Friedline's advice, Trump assembled communications and campaign staff, and began planning events in strategic states.[63] As a further step in organization, Trump set up a campaign website at the domain www.donaldjtrump2000.com and used Ventura's webmaster, Phil Madsen, to create an online community of supporters.[64] On his first campaign stop, Trump traveled to Miami, Florida and spoke before the Cuban American National Foundation.[65] The foundation invited Trump after he wrote a Miami Herald article denouncing Cuban President Fidel Castro and favoring the U.S. embargo against Cuba several months earlier.[63] During the visit, Trump was met with supporters touting "Trump 2000" posters and shouting "Viva Donald Trump!" There, he delivered his first foreign policy speech, capped with the line, "I'd have, personally, two words for [Castro]: 'Adios, amigo!'" Covering the event, columnist Maureen Dowd wrote that the fascination with Trump was the "apotheosis of our Gilded Age," where "money, celebrity, polling, and crass behavior" warp politics and the television show Who Wants to Be a Millionaire dominates the culture.[60] Following this theme, Saturday Night Live performed a sketch in which Darrell Hammond reprised his role as Trump, holding a press conference announcing Millionaire winner John Carpenter as his running mate.[66] Soon thereafter, the actual Trump floated possible running mates and members of his presidential cabinet during a November 28 episode of Late Edition with Wolf Blitzer. He identified Senator John McCain, a Republican presidential candidate, as a possible Secretary of Defense. Trump said he would consider Democratic Congressman Charles Rangel for Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and mentioned retired General Colin Powell as a possible Secretary of State. He praised General Electric CEO Jack Welch, and discussed him as either Secretary of Treasury or running mate. He again mentioned Oprah Winfrey as a possible running mate. During the interview, Trump expressed his willingness to spend $100 million to self-finance a full-scale campaign.[67] The Reform Party scheduled a debate of the candidates seeking the presidential nomination on December 3 in Portland, Oregon. When a reporter asked a Trump aide whether Trump would appear, the aide was unaware of the debate. Ultimately, Buchanan attended but Trump did not.[68] Trump's proposed cabinet Media proprietor Oprah Winfrey Vice President General Colin Powell Secretary of State General Electric CEO Jack Welch Secretary of Treasury Senator John McCain Secretary of Defense Congressman Charles Rangel Secretary of HUD December 1999[edit] Top adviser Roger Stone was part of Trump's campaign entourage. As the World Trade Organization (WTO) negotiations collapsed amid protests at a summit in Seattle, Trump appeared on the December 5 airing of ABC's This Week. He said that the WTO was not "necessarily fair" to the United States, and argued that "our best, and our smartest, and our brightest" were not being used to negotiate the deal. He renewed his attack on the negotiation skills of Barshefsky, saying that both she and Secretary of Commerce William M. Daley did not know how to negotiate.[69] Next, Trump embarked on a two-day campaign stop in California, which the media covered extensively. During the stop, Trump held a press conference, appearing with his campaign entourage that included his girlfriend Melania, Roger Stone, and bodyguard Matt Calamari. Aides made hand sanitizer readily available for reporters, presumably due to Trump's alleged germaphobia.[68] The Associated Press (AP) noted that Trump "made little attempt to appear statesman-like" at the press conference with responses that seemed "tailored more to entertain his listeners than establish his credibility."[70] In Burbank, Trump appeared on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno where he attacked Buchanan as "having a love affair with Adolf Hitler" and discussed his upcoming book, The America We Deserve. The Weekly Standard reported that though the release date was only a month away, the book had yet to be written.[68] After the Tonight Show appearance, Trump attended a meeting of one hundred Southern California Reform Party members, to whom he delivered a speech and answered questions. Crowds cheered Trump when he discussed his opposition to NAFTA, but some were offended[70] when he questioned the existence of a Reform Party platform and, after receiving a copy, left it on the podium when he exited. On the final day, Trump visited the Simon Wiesenthal Center's Museum of Tolerance and walked through an exhibit of The Holocaust. He delivered a speech and held another press conference at the museum atrium, where he denounced Buchanan's views on Nazis. Afterwards, Trump boarded his jet for Long Beach.[68] During an on-jet interview, Trump placed his odds of waging a full-scale campaign at "50/50," but "edging closer," believing there to be a "fervor" among the public about his campaign. The AP evaluated the California response as more "warm" than fervent, but described Trump's treatment as that of a "high profile dignitary." At Trump's final event, he spoke at a Tony Robbins motivational conference.[70] Robbins and Trump had made an agreement that would pay Trump $1 million for showing up at ten of Robbins' events. Trump planned to make campaign stops to coincide with Robbins' shows, speculating that he "could be the first presidential candidate to run and make money on it."[71] At the event, Trump received what the AP called a "moderately enthusiastic applause"[70] after asking the 21,000 people in attendance[68] whether he should run for president.[70] He received a large ovation when he proclaimed, "people want to hear straight talk. We're tired of being bullied by these moron politicians." Overall, The Weekly Standard praised Trump for his candor on the campaign trail.[68] In discussing his campaign strategy with The Los Angeles Times, Trump proclaimed, "the only strategy is, I'll be on television a lot." Responding to a poll of probable Reform Party voters that showed him with only 14% support, fourth place behind Ventura (20%), Perot (25%), and Buchanan (30%), Trump pointed to the spike in ratings each television network received whenever he appeared on air. He admitted, "whether or not TV ratings can transfer into votes is an interesting question." The Times characterized Trump's campaign as "Political Science 101 on how far politics is devolving into pure entertainment."[72] Nevertheless, Trump contemporaneously delved into the politics of third party campaigns when he wrote a letter to Commission on Presidential Debates asking the body to review its standard for third party candidate inclusion in the general election debates. His letter included a veiled threat of litigation if the body enacted a standard preventing his participation. At this time, Trump announced that he would make his decision on whether to wage a full-scale campaign by early February.[72] In addition, he retained two signature collection agencies in order to secure ballot access.[73] As 1999 drew to a close, the conflict within the Reform Party escalated. To the chagrin of the Perot faction, chairman-elect Jack Gargan pushed through a motion to move headquarters from Perot's home in Dallas to Florida.[74] Shortly thereafter, the Perot faction incorporated the Reform Leadership Council as an entity separate from the main party to preserve the vision of Perot. They also moved the National Convention from Ventura's home in Minneapolis to Long Beach.[75] The Ventura faction filed an unsuccessful lawsuit against the Perot faction and threatened to bolt the party, prompting chairman Verney to instruct, "don't let the door hit them when they leave."[76] As the conflict unfolded, Ventura publicly expressed that he could never support Buchanan as the party's nominee, describing him as "very shallow." Ventura said that in a head-to-head against Buchanan, he favored Trump. Ventura and Trump planned a campaign event together in Minnesota to begin the new year.[77] January 2000[edit] Trump officially released his book The America We Deserve on January 1. Dave Shiflett received credit as co-writer.[78] To promote the book, Trump held a January 5 press conference at Trump Tower, which aired on C-SPAN. He signed books and answered questions from reporters, once asserting, "I may be too honest to be a politician."[79] Trump's book, consisting of 286 pages,[78] covers Trump's political positions and policy proposals, including strict anti-crime measures, increased pressure on China, fair trade, border control, increased military spending, support for public capital punishment, and the implementation of single-payer health care.[80] It advocates eliminating soft money contributions to political parties and full disclosure of campaign donations to political candidates, but calls for the removal of limits on the amount of donations, arguing, "[i]f you want to give your life savings to Al Gore, that should be between you, Al Gore and your psychiatrist." In addition, it raises concerns about terrorism, proposing the creation of a national lottery to raise funds for anti-terrorism programs,[81] and offers a choice to North Korea to disarm or face military strikes.[17] The America We Deserve also includes praise for former boxer Muhammad Ali, Teamsters leader James P. Hoffa, as well as Trump's future political opponents Florida governor Jeb Bush and New York governor George Pataki, among others.[82] It cites friendships with baseball player Sammy Sosa and entertainer Sean Combs as making Trump more understanding of racial diversity. Trump later backpedaled his book's praise of Combs after Combs was charged with violating gun laws following a shooting at a New York nightclub. Trump said he did not "know [Combs] really well."[83] The book condemns Congressman Jerrold Nadler as a "hack" for opposing Trump's development of waterfront real estate in Manhattan, and describes Senator Bob Smith as "the dumbest guy in the U.S. Senate" after he grilled Trump's sister Maryanne Trump Barry on abortion when she testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee in 1999 upon her nomination to the Third Circuit Court of Appeals. It criticizes Democratic presidential candidate Bill Bradley as a "phony" for his Senate sponsorship of the Tax Reform Act of 1986 that purportedly hurt Trump financially. It also notes the hypocrisy of both an unnamed Senator and an unnamed conservative columnist who each engaged in extramarital affairs at Trump's hotels and resorts while they attacked President Clinton for the Lewinsky scandal.[82] In a scathing review, New York Magazine described the book as inadvertently satirical.[84] Booklist pondered whether Trump was "the only man ever to run for president in order to promote a book."[85] Dave Saltonstall of the New York Daily News, labeled it as autobiographical and reported that it contains "enough details to paint a fairly comprehensive picture of what a Trump presidency might look like."[81] On January 7, Trump appeared in Brooklyn Park, Minnesota, where he spoke before the Chamber of Commerce, attended a Reform Party fundraiser, and held a joint press conference with Ventura. At the fundraiser, Trump identified North Korea as the nation's greatest foreign policy threat, blasted Japan for "ripping us off" for the last 25 years, and ripped Russia as being "totally mixed up" for placing "people nobody ever even heard of" in charge of missiles.[86] At the press conference, Trump claimed he had yet to decide whether to run officially and so had not asked for Ventura's endorsement. Ventura said that if Trump decided to run, he would give his "full consideration." Trump asserted it would be "disaster for the Reform Party" if Pat Buchanan received the presidential nomination.[87] Describing himself and Ventura as self-made and not part of the "lucky sperm club," Trump made an indirect jab at both the Republican front-runner George W. Bush, the son of former President Bush, and Democratic front-runner Al Gore, son of the late Senator Albert Gore, Sr..[88] Trump and Ventura released a written statement opposing the Commission on Presidential Debates' decision to limit debate participation to candidates polling above 15 percent in the general election and urging the Federal Election Commission to take action.[89] Trump ended his relationship with Melania Knauss in January 2000, removing a key figure of the campaign entourage.[90] According to the New York Daily News, an associate of Trump said the move was meant to appease Reform Party leaders. Roger Stone denied the suggestion.[91] In addressing the matter, Trump complimented Knauss and commented, "she will be missed."[92] Shortly thereafter, in an attempt to bring the two Reform Party factions together, Trump invited party leaders to the Trump-owned Mar-a-Lago club in Palm Beach, Florida. Addressing the 170 party members, who attended the event (including former chairman Russ Verney), Trump proclaimed "I'm very proud to be in the party of Ross Perot and Jesse Ventura." Verney appreciated the gesture and in shifting from his once-chilly reception to the Trump candidacy, he welcomed Trump into the race. After opening the event to questions, one attendee asked Trump whether he would appear at the Florida Reform Party's state convention. Trump said he would consider it "very seriously." Concerning Buchanan, Trump repeated he could not support Buchanan as the party's nominee.[93] Despite the retreat, the intra-party dispute over the location of the convention continued.[94] Citing scheduling conflicts, Trump did not attend the Florida Reform Party's state convention. Reports suggested that Trump insiders believed Buchanan had packed the convention with supporters and would embarrass Trump by winning all the state's delegates. There were also growing indications Trump was considering withdrawing from the race, commenting that he was "deeply concerned" about the conflict within the party.[95] In another attempt to unite the party's factions, Trump wrote letters to Ventura and Perot, requesting the two make peace.[96] Trump believed the instability of the party would hinder his chances of presidential success. Stone commented that "the [Reform] party is melting down before our very eyes."[94] On the final day of January, Trump was removed from the New York primary ballot after a judge determined that Trump's supporters had failed to obtain the required 5,000 signatures from registered Reform Party members. This marked a victory for Buchanan's supporters, including leftist activist Lenora Fulani, who had hoped to prevent Trump from appearing on the ballot in his home state.[97] February 2000[edit] Despite Trump's efforts, the conflict within the Reform Party escalated. A special Reform Party meeting was planned for Nashville at which the Perot faction was expected to vacate the national chairmanship of Ventura-ally Jack Gargan.[98] Both Trump and Ventura expressed disgust with the national party. Ventura desired to disassociate the Minnesota Reform Party from the national party. An unnamed official within the party told the AP that Ventura and Trump discussed a scenario where Ventura would run as the presidential nominee of the disaffiliated party with Trump as his running mate. The chairman of the Minnesota Reform Party denied Ventura would be part of any presidential ticket.[99] After privately notifying Trump of his intentions and seeking his blessing,[100] Ventura held a press conference on February 12 and officially left the national Reform Party, remaining a member of his state party, which he urged to disaffiliate and return to its original name, the Independence Party of Minnesota. He voiced dissatisfaction with the presidential contest, explaining that Pat Buchanan was running "virtually unopposed" and receiving support from former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke; something with which Ventura could not associate. Ventura invited Trump to run for the presidential nomination of the Independence Party, which Ventura believed could become a national entity.[101] At the party's next meeting, it disaffiliated.[102] Trump considered Ventura's invitation but had concerns, particularly the question of whether other state parties would affiliate with the new party.[103] Minnesota political scientist Steve Schier doubted the party could become a national entity, arguing that it was far too small to make an impact on the national level.[101] Ventura's move came just ahead of the Nashville meeting where, with the rationale of failing to "faithfully perform and execute the duties of his office," Gargan was removed by a 109 to 31 committee vote.[104] The chaotic meeting, dominated by Perot-faction members, featured shoving matches and physical squabbles as the Metropolitan Nashville Police Department intervened to restore order. Gargan charged that the meeting was illegal due to insufficient notice, though a quorum was present.[105] Withdrawal[edit] So the Reform Party now includes a Klansman—Mr. Duke, a Neo-Nazi—Mr. Buchanan, and a Communist—Ms. Fulani. This is not company I wish to keep. Donald Trump[106] On February 14, Trump withdrew from the race.[107] In a press release, he cited infighting in the Reform Party as not "conducive to victory," concluding he could not win the election as the party's nominee and so, as pledged, would not continue his campaign. He expressed concerns about the direction of the party, particularly its membership, referring to David Duke, Pat Buchanan, and Lenora Fulani as a Klansman, a Neo-Nazi, and a Communist, respectively. However, he lauded party members Russ Verney, Jack Gargan, and others as "wonderful people" he was honored to meet. Trump lamented the exit of Jesse Ventura from the party, arguing "without Jesse, the Reform Party is just an extremist shell and cannot be a force or even a factor in 2000." Trump declined to seek the nomination of Ventura's new Independence Party, finding it "healthy" but too young to win. He expressly kept open the possibility of running for president in 2004.[106] Trump publicly announced his withdrawal on The Today Show in an interview with Matt Lauer. He explained that though he still could have won the Reform Party nomination, he believed he would only win 20 percent in the general election, which he did not want. He claimed the party was on the verge of "self-destructing" and referred to it as a "total mess."[100] In response, Pat Choate, who became the new Reform Party chairman after the unseating of Gargan, disputed Trump's claim about the party[108] and said Trump's campaign was meant only "to smear Pat Buchanan."[109] He declared Trump "unwelcome" to seek the party's 2004 presidential nomination.[108] Choate later remarked that he believed Trump's campaign was a "Republican dirty trick" orchestrated by Roger Stone "to disgust people and drive them away from the Reform Party."[110] Stone argued that John McCain "running on Trump's message" and surging in the polls signaled an end to the Trump campaign.[71] Several days after withdrawing, Trump reflected on his campaign in an editorial published in The New York Times titled "What I Saw at the Revolution." Disputing the claim that he ran for the publicity, Trump countered that he felt the nation was ready for a non-establishment "businessman president" who offered "straight talk." He cited three reasons for dropping out: (1) the criteria of the Commission on Presidential Debates, which would have made it "impossible" for him to qualify for general election debates; (2) the rise of the presidential campaign of John McCain, whose similar message would have made a contrast difficult; and (3) the exit of Ventura from the Reform Party. Trump called his run the "greatest civics lesson that a private citizen can have," but said it was "enormous fun" and a "great life experience," though it "doesn't compare with completing one of the great skyscrapers of Manhattan."[111] Results[edit] During the campaign, Trump qualified for the Michigan and California Reform Party presidential primaries. Both of these elections were held after Trump exited the race.[112] On February 22, Trump won the Michigan Primary with 2,164 votes defeating uncommitted with 948 votes.[113] Trump won the California primary on March 7 with 15,311 votes (44.28%) defeating perennial candidate George D. Weber who received 9,390 votes (27.16%), former Director of Advanced Space Programs Development Robert M. Bowman who received 4,879 (14.11%), former Congressman John B. Anderson who received 3,158 (9.13%), and political activist Charles E. Collins who received 1,837 (5.31%).[114] Pat Buchanan was not listed on either ballot. A slate of Trump supporters petitioned to list Trump on the New York Independence Party presidential primary ballot but were denied on a technicality.[115] Pat Buchanan eventually won the Reform Party presidential nomination at a chaotic[116] National Convention in Long Beach in August 2000.[117] Buchanan had lost the support of the Perot faction, which accused Buchanan of fraud and held a counter-convention, nominating Buchanan's only major opponent physicist John Hagelin of the Natural Law Party.[118] According to Russ Verney, the Perot faction lost faith in Buchanan when he emphasized pro-life and anti-homosexual issue positions after promising to respect the party's neutral stance on social issues.[119] After the filing of a complaint over the party's matching funds, the FEC ruled against the Perot faction and invalided the Hagelin selection.[120] The decision was affirmed on appeal. On Election Day, Buchanan appeared on the ballot in all 50 states and received 448,895 votes, 0.42% of the popular vote. George W. Bush defeated Al Gore in a close contest[121] that required a recount and Supreme Court intervention.[122] The Bush campaign recruited Roger Stone to oversee the recount.[123] Reform Party presidential primary results by county California Donald Trump John B. Anderson Robert M. Bowman Charles E. Collins George D. Weber No votes Michigan Donald Trump Uncommitted Tie No votes Aftermath[edit] Trump speaks at a campaign event in 2016. After the election, Trump returned to his real estate business, rekindled his relationship with Melania Knauss, whom he married in 2005,[124] and hosted NBC's The Apprentice and The Celebrity Apprentice for 14 seasons from 2004 to 2015, acquiring the catchphrase, "You're fired!".[125] In addition, he continued an involvement in politics. He changed his voter registration from the New York Independence Party (Reform Party affiliate) to the Democratic Party in August 2001[2] as the Reform Party continued its decline. By 2004, the party had lost ballot access in all but seven states, which it gave to Independent presidential candidate Ralph Nader.[126] Trump was critical of the George W. Bush administration's handling of the Iraq War[127] and publicly endorsed Bush's impeachment.[128] He considered challenging Bush in the 2004 Republican presidential primaries, but ultimately decided against it.[129] Jesse Ventura, who chose not to run for re-election as Governor of Minnesota in 2002,[130] also considered a 2004 presidential run and publicly asked for and received Trump's support at WrestleMania XX.[131] However, Ventura did not run. In 2009, Trump changed his voter registration from Democrat back to Republican.[2] He seriously considered running for president as a Republican in 2012 and led in an April 2011 Rasmussen Reports survey.[132] While considering a run, Trump emphasized China's currency manipulation and criticized the trade policies of the Barack Obama administration.[133] Additionally, he questioned the legitimacy of Obama's citizenship and birth certificate.[134] He decided not to run in May 2011,[135] but proclaimed "I maintain the strong conviction that if I were to run, I would be able to win the primary and, ultimately, the general election."[136] After reports that a group in Texas was attempting to create the "Make America Great Again Party" with the intention of running Trump as a candidate,[137] Trump briefly considered a 2012 Independent bid and changed his voter registration from Republican to "I do not wish to enroll in a party."[2][138] Trump said he would run if the Republicans selected the "wrong candidate."[137] Ultimately, he again decided against running. Trump re-registered as a Republican in 2012[2] and publicly endorsed Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney for president.[139] After much speculation, Trump officially decided to run for president as a Republican in 2016, using the motto "Make America Great Again." In his announcement speech in June 2015, Trump took a tough stance against illegal immigration and promised to build a wall on the U.S.–Mexico border if elected president.[140] After announcing, Trump became the front-runner for the nomination, taking the lead in nearly every national poll, ahead of his rivals for the Republican nomination including Jeb Bush, retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, and Senator Marco Rubio of Florida.[141] Trump styled himself as the candidate of anti-establishment Republicans and received praise from former rival Pat Buchanan, who compared Trump's run to Buchanan's 1992 and 1996 campaigns.[142] His attacks on the Republican establishment included a slight against the war hero status of John McCain, whom Trump complimented during his 2000 campaign.[143] Republican voters favored the purported honesty of Trump's message and his abrasive approach,[144] which eschewed political correctness.[145] Roger Stone, who headed Trump's 2000 presidential committee, served as an adviser for the 2016 campaign until a much publicized split in August 2015.[146] The campaign generated major media attention and attracted large crowds to campaign events. Trump won multiple Republican primaries, receiving more votes than any previous Republican candidate, and earned the party's presidential nomination at the 2016 Republican National Convention. In the general election, Trump defeated Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton to be elected the 45th President of the United States. References[edit] ^ Sargent, Hilary (January 22, 2014). "The man responsible for Donald Trump's never-ending presidential campaign". Boston.com. Retrieved August 19, 2015. ^ a b c d e Chasmar, Jessica (June 16, 2015). "Donald Trump changed political parties at least five times: report". The Washington Times. Retrieved October 5, 2015. ^ Ben-Meir, Ilan (July 10, 2015). "That Time Trump Spent Nearly $100,000 On An Ad Criticizing U.S. Foreign Policy In 1987". BuzzFeed. Retrieved August 19, 2015. ^ Butterfield, Fox (October 23, 1987). "New Hampshire Speech Earns Praise for Trump". The New York Times. Retrieved August 19, 2015. ^ Barbaro, Michael (September 8, 2015). "Donald Trump, Praised by Former President Nixon, Biography Says". The New York Times. Retrieved September 19, 2015. ^ Peters, Jeremy W.; Brian Stelter (April 2, 2011). "Trump for President in 2012? Maybe. Trump for Trump? Without Question". The New York Times. Retrieved October 7, 2015. ^ "Donald Trump to Oprah In 1988: America A Debtor Nation; "Something Is Going To Happen"". RealClearPolitics. July 29, 2015. Retrieved August 19, 2015. ^ Capretto, Lisa (July 28, 2015). "In 1988, Oprah Asked Donald Trump If He'd Ever Run For President. Here's How He Replied". The Huffington Post. Retrieved August 19, 2015. ^ Kirell, Andrew (July 17, 2015). "FLASHBACK: Here's How Trump Responded When Asked if He'd Run for President 27 Years Ago". Mediaite. Retrieved April 25, 2020. ^ Massie, Chris (October 20, 2016). "Trump in 1988 CNN interview: I enjoy the political system, it's 'a beautiful thing'". CNN. Retrieved October 10, 2019. ^ "The Reform Party – Ross Perot: Political Timeline". CNN. 1996. Retrieved July 26, 2010. ^ Ayres, Jr., B. Drummond (August 10, 1996). "Reform Party's Split Widens With Its Convention at Hand". The New York Times. Retrieved July 26, 2011. ^ a b Allen, Mike (July 24, 1999). "Ventura Says He Won't Be Presidential Candidate in 2000". New York Times. Retrieved July 26, 2011. ^ Ayres Jr., B. Drummond (December 12, 1999). "Political Briefing; A Battle to Control The Reform Party". New York Times. Retrieved January 5, 2010. ^ "Exit, pursued by Jesse Ventura". The Economist. February 17, 2000. Retrieved July 26, 2011. ^ Nagourney, Adam (September 25, 1999). "President? Why Not? Says a Man at the Top". The New York Times. Retrieved August 20, 2015. ^ a b c Shiflett, Dave (February 2000). "Trump's No Chump". The American Spectator. Archived from the original on September 28, 2015. Retrieved September 19, 2015. ^ a b c d e Allen, Mike (July 17, 1999). "Political Notes; For Trump, a Race So Short and Sweet". The New York Times. Retrieved July 27, 2011. ^ a b c d Fink, Mitchell; Siemaszko, Corky (July 13, 1999). "Trump Waves Off Prez Poll Pick". New York Daily News. Archived from the original on June 3, 2012.CS1 maint: unfit url (link) ^ "Jesse Finds His Big Guy". Newsweek. July 18, 1999. Retrieved July 27, 2011. ^ a b c Johnson, Glen. "Donald Trump eyeing a run at the White House". Standard-Speaker. Hazelton, Pennsylvania. ^ "Trump considers Reform candidacy". The Rochester Sentinel. September 14, 1999. Retrieved July 27, 2011. ^ Shafer, Ronald G. (September 17, 1999). "Washington Wire". The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved October 9, 2015. ^ a b "Trump Vs. Buchanan: Round 1". CBS News. September 21, 1999. Retrieved August 20, 2015. ^ Novak, Robert (September 16, 1999). "Ventura and Buchanan are squaring off". Standard-Speaker. Hazelton, Pennsylvania. p. 16. ^ Allen, Mike (October 5, 1999). "Weicker Cool to Reform Bid". The New York Times. Retrieved July 27, 2011. ^ "Ross Perot Interviews Pat Buchanan and Donald Trump From Saturday Night Live". NBC. October 2, 1999. Retrieved August 20, 2015. ^ "Perot's Reform Party". SNL Transcripts. October 2, 1999. Retrieved August 21, 2015. ^ George Rush; Joanna Molloy; Marcus Baram; Marc S; Malkin (September 16, 1999). "Trump on Stump With New Book?". Daily News. Retrieved August 20, 2015. ^ Geller, Andy (September 25, 1999). "Trump: I Won't Run Unless I Can Win". New York Post. Retrieved August 20, 2015. ^ Hoffmann, Bill (October 1, 1999). "Trump: 'I'd Be the Kind of President U.S. Needs'". New York Post. Retrieved September 20, 2015. ^ Starr, Michael (October 6, 1999). "TV Ticker". New York Post. Retrieved September 20, 2015. ^ "Trump says he will explore Reform bid for White House". The Philadelphia Inquirer. October 8, 1999. Retrieved October 10, 2019. "I will be forming a presidential exploratory committee ... effective, I believe, tomorrow," Trump told CNN's Larry King Live. ^ "Trump pondering White House bid to reverse 'lack of spirit'". CNN. October 7, 1999. Archived from the original on August 18, 2000. ^ "Trump Forms Exploratory Committee For Possible Presidential Run". Times-Union. October 7, 1999. Retrieved July 27, 2011. ^ "Winfrey is first choice for Trump as running mate". New Straits Times. October 9, 1999. Retrieved July 27, 2011. ^ a b c "Transcript: Donald Trump announces plans to form presidential exploratory committee". CNN. October 8, 1999. Retrieved August 21, 2015. ^ a b c Orin, Deborah (October 8, 1999). "Trump Pumped To Hit Stump – Wants To Run With Oprah On His Ticket". New York Post. Retrieved August 21, 2015. ^ a b Delfiner, Rita (October 14, 1999). "Does Donald Have a Gal Pal in Mind as His First Lady". New York Post. Retrieved October 9, 2015. ^ Wadler, Joyce (December 1, 1999). "A Model as First Lady? Think Traditional". The New York Times. Retrieved October 9, 2015. ^ a b c Bai, Matt (October 17, 1999). "Riding The Wave With The Donald". Newsweek. Retrieved August 22, 2015. ^ Peyser, Andrea (October 9, 1999). "Ivana: He's Not That Dumb! Says Ex Is Too Busy To Run For Prez". New York Post. Retrieved September 21, 2015. ^ a b c Squitieri, Tom (October 8, 1999). "Trump forms exploratory committee". USA Today. Retrieved August 22, 2015. ^ Logiurato, Brett; Walker, Hunter (August 8, 2015). "Donald Trump, Roger Stone part ways". Business Insider. Retrieved August 22, 2015. ^ Allen, Mike (October 2, 1999). "Leave Party, Reform Chairman Tells Ventura". The New York Times. Retrieved August 22, 2015. ^ Arena, Salvatore; George Rush; Corky Siemaszko (October 20, 1999). "Chatty Marla to Get Her 1.5M from Trump". Daily News. Retrieved September 21, 2015. ^ Jessica, Graham (October 20, 1999). "Court Tells Trump to Pay Marla on Time". New York Post. Retrieved September 21, 2015. ^ a b c d Cline, Frances X. (October 25, 1999). "Trump Quits Grand Old Party for New". The New York Times. Retrieved August 22, 2015. ^ "Trump officially joins Reform Party". CNN. October 25, 1999. Retrieved August 22, 2015. ^ New Jersey member Beverly Kidder said, "His treatment of women—his wives, plural—is notorious." ^ Lambro, Donald (November 2, 1999). "Will Perot recapture 'his' party?". The Hour. Retrieved July 27, 2011. ^ Edsall, Thomas B. (October 25, 1999). "Trump Set to Join Reform Party". The Washington Post. Retrieved August 23, 2015. ^ Mann, William C. (November 1, 1999). "Trump says he would make trade deals". The Salina Journal. Salina, Kansas. p. 1. ^ a b c d e f "Donald Trump: Soak The Rich". CBS News. November 9, 1999. Retrieved August 24, 2015. ^ Hirschkorn, Phil (November 9, 1999). "Trump proposes massive one-time tax on the rich". CNN. Retrieved August 24, 2015. ^ Wharton Econometric Forecasting Associates senior vice president Andrew Hodge. ^ RFA Dismal Sciences chief economist Mark Zandi. ^ Bartlett, Bruce (November 16, 1999). "Can Anyone Trump This Goofy Tax Plan?". The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved August 24, 2015. ^ a b Sommers, Robert L. (November 28, 1999). "Trump's plan to tax the rich won't work". San Francisco Chronicle. Retrieved August 24, 2015. ^ a b Dowd, Maureen (November 18, 1999). "Trump-eting a presidential run". Santa Cruz Sentinel. pp. A–11. ^ Chapman, Francesca (November 9, 1999). "Seinfeld To Take A Wife, And He'll Marry This One". Philadelphia Media Network. Retrieved August 24, 2015. ^ "Why would Trump run for president?". The Index-Journal. Greenwood, South Carolina. November 7, 1999. ^ a b Neal, Pat (November 15, 1999). "Trump flirts with campaign in namesake fashion". CNN. Retrieved August 24, 2015. ^ Rochelle, Olson (November 18, 1999). "Trump launches Web site, with Ventura's master running things". Standard-Speaker. Hazleton, Pennsylvania. p. 14. ^ La Corte, Rachel (November 16, 1999). "Trump meets with Bay of Pigs vets, denounces Castro". Standard-Speaker. Hazleton, Pennsylvania. p. 30. ^ "Saturday Night Live Transcripts". SNL Transcripts. November 20, 1999. Retrieved August 25, 2015. ^ "Trump offers details on possible presidential bid". CNN. November 28, 1999. Retrieved August 24, 2015. ^ a b c d e f Labash, Matt (December 20, 1999). "A Chump On the Stump". The Weekly Standard. Retrieved August 26, 2015. ^ "'No deal better than bad deal'". The Salina Journal. Salina, Kansas. December 6, 1999. ^ a b c d e "Trump edging closer to running for president". The Index-Journal. Greenwood, South Carolina. December 8, 1999. p. 8A. ^ a b Useem, Jerry; Spencer, Theodore (April 3, 2000). "What Does Donald Trump Really Want? The girl and the car, obviously. Respect, maybe. And he could definitely use a mortgage—soon. Whatever he's after, he's his own worst enemy". Fortune. Retrieved September 20, 2015. ^ a b Baum, Geraldine (December 6, 1999). "The Donald Erases Line Between Politics, Comedy". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved September 20, 2015. ^ Nagourney, Adam (December 10, 1999). "A Question Trails Trump: Is He Really a Candidate?". The New York Times. Retrieved September 20, 2015. ^ "Reform Party to move from Dallas". The Kerrville Times. Kerrville, Texas. December 27, 1999. ^ "Reform Party shows signs of splitting over issues". The Index-Journal. Greenwood, South Carolina. December 29, 1999. ^ "Widening rift threatens Reform Party". The Daily Herald. Chicago. December 30, 1999. ^ "Ventura says he cannot support Buchanon". The Paris News. Paris, Texas. December 30, 1999. ^ a b Trump, Donald (January 1, 2000). The America We Deserve. ISBN 1580631312. ^ "Book Discussion on the America We Deserve". C-SPAN. January 11, 2000. Retrieved September 18, 2015. ^ "The America We Deserve, by Donald Trump". OnTheIssues.org. Retrieved July 28, 2011. ^ a b Saltonstall, Dave (January 5, 2000). "Trump towers in new autobiography". Calhoun Times and Gordon County News. p. 6C. Retrieved September 19, 2015. ^ a b Kamen, Al (January 23, 2000). "Sunday In The Loop". The Washington Post. Retrieved September 17, 2015. ^ "Trump backpedals on 'Puffy'". Santa Cruz Sentinel. January 9, 2000. p. A6. ^ Kirn, Walter (January 17, 2000). "In Trump We Trust". New York. Retrieved September 16, 2015. ^ "Summary/Reviews: The America we deserve". Buffalo & Erie County Public Library. American Library Association. Retrieved October 11, 2015. ^ Janofsky, Michael (January 8, 2000). "Trump Speaks Out on Just About Everything". The New York Times. Retrieved September 20, 2015. ^ "Trump News Conference". C-SPAN. January 7, 2000. Retrieved August 31, 2015. ^ "Trump, Ventura together, sort of". The Salina Journal. Salina, Kansas. January 8, 2000. p. A9. ^ "Trump: 'Chance I'll run'". Boca Raton News. January 8, 2000. p. 6A. Retrieved September 19, 2015. ^ Johnson, Richard (January 11, 2000). "Trump Knixes Knauss". New York Post. Retrieved September 16, 2015. ^ Rush, George; Mitchell Fink; K.C. Baker (January 12, 2000). "Pageant Beauties Help Trump Cope With Breakup". Daily News. Retrieved September 16, 2015. ^ Barron, James (January 13, 2000). "Public Lives". The New York Times. Retrieved September 20, 2015. ^ "Reform Party leaders gather at Trump's compound". Amarillo Globe-News. January 15, 2000. Retrieved September 20, 2015. ^ a b "Trump wants to see party bickering end". The Salina Journal. Salina, Kansas. January 26, 2000. p. A3. ^ Singer, Stacey (January 21, 2000). "Trump Out Of Tampa Rally, Might Drop Reform Bid". Sun-Sentinel. Retrieved September 18, 2015. ^ "Attention Shifts to New Hampshire". The Daily Herald. Chicago. January 26, 2000. p. 3. ^ Holland, Jesse J. (February 1, 2000). "Trump tossed from Reform Party ballot in New York by state judge". TheCabin.net. Retrieved September 20, 2015. ^ Olson, Rochelle (February 12, 2000). "Gov. Jesse Ventura quits Reform Party, takes Trump along". Santa Cruz Sentinel. ^ "Ventura Wants Separation From the Reform Party". Standard-Speaker. Hazleton, Pennsylvania. February 11, 2000. pp. 1, 11. ^ a b "Donald Trump Says He Will Not Run for President in 2000". NBC Learn K-12. February 14, 2000. Retrieved October 3, 2015. ^ a b "'Dysfunctional' party loses Ventura's support". The Daily Herald. Chicago. February 12, 2000. p. 3. ^ "Reform Party votes to leave national group". Saint Paul Pioneer Press. March 5, 2000. Retrieved September 22, 2015. ^ Olson, Rochelle (February 12, 2000). "Ventura jumps from national Reform Party". Standard-Speaker. Hazleton, Pennsylvania. pp. 1, 15. ^ "Reform Party ousts Ventura ally after scuffle". The Post and Courier. February 13, 2000. ^ Ayres, B. Drummond (February 13, 2000). "Perot Supporters Take Back Reform Party in Chaotic Meeting". The New York Times. Retrieved September 23, 2015. ^ a b "Trump Out" (Press release). Donald Trump. February 14, 2000. Retrieved October 3, 2015. ^ "The Donald ducks out on presidential run, blames party fighting". Deseret News. February 14, 2000. Retrieved July 28, 2011. ^ a b "In dropping bid, Trump criticizes Reform Party". News on 6 Now. Tulsa, Oklahoma. February 14, 2000. Retrieved October 3, 2015. ^ "Trump, citing 'mess,' says he's out". Toledo Blade. February 15, 2000. Retrieved October 3, 2015. ^ Barrett, Wayne; Singer, Jessie (May 11, 2004). "The Sex Scandal That Put Bush in the White House". The Village Voice. Retrieved October 7, 2015. ^ Trump, Donald J. (February 19, 2000). "What I Saw at the Revolution". The New York Times. Retrieved October 3, 2015. ^ "2000 Presidential Primary Dates by State". FEC. June 23, 2000. Archived from the original on November 4, 2015. Retrieved October 5, 2015. ^ "Michigan Presidential Primary Facts and Statistics" (PDF). Michigan Department of State Bureau of Elections. June 2011. Retrieved October 5, 2015. ^ "Primary 2000 – Statewide Totals". CA Secretary of State. June 2, 2000. Archived from the original on February 16, 2015. Retrieved October 5, 2015. ^ Winger, Richard (December 25, 2011). "Donald Trump Ran For President in 2000 in Several Reform Party Presidential Primaries". Ballot Access News. Retrieved October 5, 2015. ^ Collins, Gail (August 13, 2000). "Fractionalized, fromage* and fringe". Record-Journal. Retrieved July 26, 2011. ^ Kellman, Laurie (August 12, 2000). "Buchanan nominated, but Reform rift deepens". jacksonville.com. Retrieved July 26, 2011. ^ Kellman, Laurie (August 11, 2000). "Buchanan wins Reform Party nomination". Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. Retrieved July 26, 2011. ^ Kellman, Laurie (August 6, 2000). "Buchanan still facing obstacles". Ukiah Daily Journal. Ukiah, California. ^ Kim, Eun-Kyung (September 13, 2000). "FEC: Buchanan to get Reform's campaign money". Amarillo Globe-News. Retrieved October 5, 2015. ^ "2000 Presidential General Election Results". FEC. December 2001. Retrieved October 5, 2015. ^ McBride, Alex (December 2006). "Bush v. Gore (2000)". PBS. Retrieved October 12, 2015. ^ Toobin, Jeffrey (June 2, 2008). "The Dirty Trickster". The New Yorker. Retrieved October 12, 2015. ^ Stoynoff, Natasha (January 23, 2005). "Donald Trump Weds Melania Knauss". People. Retrieved October 7, 2015. ^ Collins, Seth (September 15, 2015). "NBC replaces Trump with Schwarzenegger on 'Celebrity Apprentice'". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved October 7, 2015. ^ Seelye, Katharine Q. (May 13, 2004). "Reform Party Backs Nader, Offering Line On Ballots". The New York Times. Retrieved October 12, 2015. ^ "Donald Trump Would 'Fire' Bush Over Iraq Invasion". Jeff Rense. July 14, 2004. Retrieved October 6, 2015. ^ Bump, Philip (February 13, 2016). "In 2008, Donald Trump said George W. Bush should've been impeached". The Washington Post. Retrieved October 10, 2019. ^ Terbush, Jon (January 14, 2014). "Donald Trump's never-ending fictional campaign for office". The Week. Retrieved October 6, 2015. ^ Wilgoren, Jodi (June 19, 2002). "Gov. Ventura Says He Won't Seek Re-election". The New York Times. Retrieved October 12, 2015. ^ Garcia, Eric (August 14, 2015). "That Time Jesse Ventura Asked Donald Trump for Political Support at Wrestlemania". National Journal. Retrieved October 6, 2015. ^ "National GOP Primary Poll: Trump 19% Romney 17% Huckabee 15% -". Rasmussen Reports. April 28, 2011. Retrieved October 6, 2015. ^ Grove, Lloyd (January 11, 2011). "Donald Trump Spells Out What Obama Is Doing Wrong And Why He Should Be The Next President". Business Insider. Retrieved October 6, 2015. ^ Eldridge, David (April 10, 2011). "Trump rides issue of Obama's birth certificate". The Washington Times. Retrieved October 6, 2015. ^ Kucinich, Jackie (May 17, 2011). "Donald Trump will sit out 2012 race". USA Today. ^ MacAskill, Ewen (May 16, 2011). "Donald Trump bows out of 2012 US presidential election race". The Guardian. Retrieved October 6, 2015. ^ a b Batheja, Aman (January 1, 2012). "Report: Activists have filed paperwork in Texas for a Donald Trump third-party run for president". Fort Worth Star-Telegram. Archived from the original on February 3, 2016. Retrieved October 6, 2015. ^ Johnson, Luke (January 2, 2012). "Donald Trump Talks Possible Independent Run, Iowa Caucus 2012". The Huffington Post. Retrieved October 6, 2015. ^ "Trump endorses Mitt Romney for president". CBS News. February 2, 2012. Retrieved June 4, 2012. ^ "'I'll Build a Wall and Mexico Will Pay for It': Watch Highlights of Trump's 2016 Address". Fox News Channel. June 16, 2015. Retrieved October 6, 2015. ^ Agiesta, Jennifer (September 10, 2015). "Donald Trump Tops 30% in CNN/ORC poll". CNN. Retrieved October 6, 2015. ^ Tesfaye, Sophia (July 28, 2015). "Pat Buchanan is bullish on The Donald: Right-wing pundit predicts Trump will go the distance". Salon. Retrieved October 6, 2015. ^ Scott, Eugene; Mark Preston; Eric Bradner (July 20, 2015). "Defiant Donald Trump refuses to apologize to John McCain". CNN. Retrieved October 12, 2015. ^ Sargent, Greg. "Republicans think Donald Trump is trustworthy, empathetic, and well suited to presidency". Retrieved 2017-02-18. ^ Gass, Nick (September 23, 2015). "Donald Trump 2016: Tired of Political correctness". Politico. Retrieved October 6, 2015. ^ Costa, Robert (August 8, 2015). "Trump ends relationship with longtime political adviser Roger Stone". The Washington Post. Retrieved October 7, 2015. External links[edit] Media related to Donald Trump presidential campaign, 2000 at Wikimedia Commons v t e (1996 ←) 2000 United States presidential election (→ 2004) General election results Florida results Republican Party Convention Primaries Nominee George W. Bush campaign positions VP nominee Dick Cheney Candidates Lamar Alexander Gary Bauer Pat Buchanan campaign Herman Cain positions Elizabeth Dole Jack Fellure Steve Forbes Orrin Hatch John Kasich campaign positions Alan Keyes campaign Andy Martin John McCain campaign positions Dan Quayle Bob Smith Democratic Party Convention Primaries Nominee Al Gore campaign VP nominee Joe Lieberman positions Candidates Bill Bradley campaign Lyndon LaRouche campaign positions Constitution Party Convention Nominee Howard Phillips VP nominee Curtis Frazier Candidates Herb Titus Green Party Convention Nominee Ralph Nader campaign VP nominee Winona LaDuke Candidates Jello Biafra Stephen Gaskin Joel Kovel Libertarian Party Convention Nominee Harry Browne campaign VP nominee Art Olivier Candidates Barry Hess L. Neil Smith Reform Party Primaries Nominee Pat Buchanan campaign VP nominee Ezola B. Foster Candidates John Hagelin Donald Trump campaign positions Natural Law Party Nominee John Hagelin VP nominee Nat Goldhaber Prohibition Party Nominee Earl Dodge VP nominee W. Dean Watkins Socialist Party Nominee David McReynolds VP nominee Mary Cal Hollis Socialist Workers Party Nominee James Harris VP nominee Margaret Trowe Workers World Party Nominee Monica Moorehead VP nominee Gloria La Riva Independent Cathy Gordon Brown Charles E. Collins Isabell Masters Joe Schriner Florida election recount and legal proceedings Key figures Katherine Harris Jeb Bush David Boies Theodore Olson James Baker Ron Klain Warren Christopher Michael Whouley Benjamin Ginsberg Bob Butterworth Joe Allbaugh Mac Stipanovich Craig Waters Theresa LePore Carol Roberts Election day Florida Central Voter File (scrub list) Volusia error Chad Butterfly ballot Aftermath and legal proceedings Florida election recount Brooks Brothers riot Palm Beach County Canvassing Board v. Harris (Harris I) Gore v. Harris (Harris II) Bush v. Palm Beach County Canvassing Board Bush v. Gore Films Recount (2008) Bush Family Fortunes (2004) Unprecedented: The 2000 Presidential Election (2002) Other 2000 elections House Senate Gubernatorial v t e Donald Trump 45th President of the United States (2017–present) Owner of The Trump Organization (Chairman/President: 1971–2017) Executive producer of The Apprentice (Host: 2004–2015) Presidency Election Reactions Transition Inauguration Timeline first 100 days 2017 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2018 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2019 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2020 Q1 Q2 domestic trips 2017 2018 2019 2020 international trips Polls 2017 2018 2019 Cabinet formation withdrawn Appointments ambassadors economic advisors federal judges Supreme Court candidates Neil Gorsuch Brett Kavanaugh U.S. Attorneys controversies short tenures Dismissals U.S. Attorneys James Comey Pardons and commutations Joe Arpaio Executive actions proclamations Government shutdowns January 2018 2018–19 Impeachment Life and politics Business career legal affairs wealth tax returns Media career The Apprentice Golf Honors and awards Political positions Economy tariffs Environment Paris withdrawal Foreign policy positions as candidate America First China–United States trade war Israel–Palestine Jerusalem recognition Golan Heights recognition Peace plan Iran deal withdrawal Helsinki summit North Korea summits Singapore Hanoi DMZ Death of Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi Death of Qasem Soleimani Immigration family separation travel ban wall Social issues cannabis Space policy Protests timeline assassination attempt efforts to impeach Lawsuits Racial views Veracity of statements Books Trump: The Art of the Deal (1987) Trump: Surviving at the Top (1990) Trump: The Art of the Comeback (1997) The America We Deserve (2000) Trump 101 (2006) Why We Want You to Be Rich (2006) Think Big and Kick Ass (2007) Time to Get Tough (2011) Midas Touch (2011) Crippled America (2015) Speeches Inaugural address (2017) Joint session of Congress (2017) Riyadh summit (2017) Warsaw speech (2017) National Scout Jamboree (2017) State of the Union Address 2018 2019 2020 Oval Office address 2019 2020 Campaigns 2000 presidential campaign 2016 presidential campaign "Make America Great Again" rallies Republican primaries endorsements debates Convention General election endorsements debates Never Trump movement Republican opposition Mitt Romney speech Sexual misconduct allegations Access Hollywood recording 2020 presidential campaign endorsements rallies Related Foundation In popular culture filmography in music SNL parodies Trump family Immediate family Residences 85-15 Wareham Place Bedminster Mar-a-Lago Trump Tower The Visionary On social media wiretapping allegations Real News Update Covfefe Fake News Awards Nicknames used by Trump Pseudonyms Stormy Daniels scandal Trump Force One Trump derangement syndrome ← Barack Obama Category Book v t e Presidency of Donald Trump Campaigns 2000 presidential campaign 2016 presidential campaign Make America Great Again rallies Republican primaries endorsements debates convention General election endorsements debates reactions Assassination attempt Never Trump movement Mitt Romney's anti-Trump speech Republican opposition Sexual misconduct allegations Access Hollywood recording Wiretapping allegations 2020 presidential campaign endorsements rallies Tenure Transition Inauguration speech Opinion polling 2017 2018 2019 Social media 2018 midterm elections Executive actions proclamations Executive clemency pardon of Joe Arpaio Travel bans reactions legal challenges protests replacement Family separation policy Migrant detentions Operation Faithful Patriot Stormy Daniels scandal Anonymous senior official op-ed Relations with Israel Jerusalem recognition Golan Heights recognition Peace plan North Korea crisis Singapore summit Hanoi summit DMZ summit 2019–20 Persian Gulf crisis Trump–Ukraine scandal Relations with Russia Helsinki summit Saudi Arabia arms deal Syria strikes 2017 2018 Taiwan call Withdrawal from the Iran deal Death of Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi Death of Qasem Soleimani Coronavirus pandemic Communication Timeline First 100 days 2017 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2018 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2019 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2020 Q1 Q2 Trips 2017 2018 2019 2020 international Riyadh summit Singapore summit Helsinki summit Hanoi summit DMZ summit Policies Economy tax cuts tariffs China trade war Environment Paris Agreement withdrawal Foreign policy as candidate as President America First Immigration Racial views Social issues cannabis Personnel Cabinet formation Federal judges Gorsuch Kavanaugh Supreme Court candidates controversies Ambassadors Attorneys Economic advisors Withdrawn appointees Short-tenure appointees Dismissals and resignations Attorneys Yates Comey Tillerson McMaster Pruitt Controversies & impeachment Business projects in Russia Links with Russian officials Trump Tower meeting Steele dossier Crossfire Hurricane Classified information disclosures Russian election interference timeline until July 2016 July 2016–election day transition period Special Counsel investigation Mueller Report Barr letter Timeline transition period Jan–Jun 2017 Jul–Dec 2017 Jan–Jun 2018 Jul–Dec 2018 2019–2020 Impeachment efforts inquiry trial Opposition Lawsuits Protests timeline 2017 Women's March March for Science Impeachment March family separation policy protests v t e Reform Party of the United States of America Presidential tickets 1996: Perot/Choate 2000: Buchanan/Foster 2004: Nader/Camejo 2008: Weill/McEnulty 2012: Barnett/Cross 2016: De La Fuente/Steinberg Primaries 1996 primaries 2000 primaries 2004 primaries 2008 primaries 2012 primaries 2016 primaries Other notable individuals Darcy Richardson Russ Verney Jesse Ventura Mae Schunk Richard Lamm Ed Zschau Buddy Roemer Donald Trump List of third party performances in United States elections Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Donald_Trump_2000_presidential_campaign&oldid=953144253" Categories: Political career of Donald Trump Reform Party of the United States of America presidential campaigns 2000 United States presidential campaigns Hidden categories: CS1 maint: unfit url Articles with short description Pages using multiple image with manual scaled images Commons category link is on Wikidata Good articles Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Add links This page was last edited on 25 April 2020, at 22:36 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view