https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bill_Clinton
Bill Clinton - Wikipedia
Bill Clinton From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search "William Clinton" redirects here. For other uses, see William Clinton (disambiguation). 42nd president of the United States Bill Clinton 42nd President of the United States In office January 20, 1993 – January 20, 2001 Vice President Al Gore Preceded by George H. W. Bush Succeeded by George W. Bush 40th and 42nd Governor of Arkansas In office January 11, 1983 – December 12, 1992 Lieutenant Winston Bryant Jim Guy Tucker Preceded by Frank D. White Succeeded by Jim Guy Tucker In office January 9, 1979 – January 19, 1981 Lieutenant Joe Purcell Preceded by Joe Purcell (acting) Succeeded by Frank D. White Chair of the National Governors Association In office August 26, 1986 – July 28, 1987 Deputy John H. Sununu Preceded by Lamar Alexander Succeeded by John H. Sununu 50th Attorney General of Arkansas In office January 3, 1977 – January 9, 1979 Governor David Pryor Joe Purcell (acting) Preceded by Jim Guy Tucker Succeeded by Steve Clark Personal details Born William Jefferson Blythe III (1946-08-19) August 19, 1946 (age 73) Hope, Arkansas, U.S. Political party Democratic Spouse(s) Hillary Rodham (m. 1975) Children Chelsea Clinton Parents William Jefferson Blythe Jr. Virginia Cassidy Residence Chappaqua, New York, U.S. Washington, D.C., U.S. Education Georgetown University (BS) University College, Oxford Yale University (JD) Awards Presidential Medal of Freedom Signature This article is part of a series aboutBill Clinton Political positions Electoral history Early life Family Public image Sexual misconduct allegations Governor of Arkansas Governorship President of the United States Presidency timeline Policies Economic Gun control Environmental Foreign Clinton Doctrine International trips Appointments Cabinet Judiciary First term 1st inauguration Health Security Act NAFTA Republican Revolution AmeriCorps Dayton Agreement Timeline '93 '94 '95 '96 Second term 2nd inauguration One America Initiative Balanced Budget Operation Infinite Reach Bombing of Iraq Bombing of Yugoslavia Clinton–Lewinsky scandal Impeachment Timeline '97 '98 '99 '00 '01 Presidential campaigns 1992 Primaries Convention Election 1996 Primaries Convention Debates Election Controversies Whitewater White House travel office Pardon Post-presidency Presidential Library My Life Activities Clinton Foundation Clinton Bush Haiti Fund One America Appeal v t e William Jefferson Clinton (né Blythe III; born August 19, 1946) is an American politician who served as the 42nd president of the United States from 1993 to 2001. Prior to his presidency, he served as governor of Arkansas (1979–1981 and 1983–1992) and as attorney general of Arkansas (1977–1979). A member of the Democratic Party, Clinton was known as a New Democrat, and many of his policies reflected a centrist "Third Way" political philosophy. He is the husband of former secretary of state, former U.S. senator, and two-time candidate for president Hillary Clinton. Clinton was born and raised in Arkansas and attended Georgetown University,[1] University College, Oxford, and Yale Law School. He met Hillary Rodham at Yale and married her in 1975. After graduating from law school, Clinton returned to Arkansas and won election as the attorney general of Arkansas, serving from 1977 to 1979. He later served as governor of Arkansas. As governor, he overhauled the state's education system and served as chairman of the National Governors Association. Clinton was elected president in 1992, defeating incumbent Republican opponent George H. W. Bush. At age 46, he became the third-youngest president in history. Clinton presided over the longest period of peacetime economic expansion in American history. He signed into law the North American Free Trade Agreement, but failed to pass his plan for national health care reform. In the 1994 elections, the Republican Party won unified control of Congress for the first time in 40 years. In 1996, Clinton became the first Democrat since Franklin D. Roosevelt to be elected to a second full term. He passed welfare reform and the State Children's Health Insurance Program, as well as financial deregulation measures. During the last three years of Clinton's presidency, the Congressional Budget Office reported a budget surplus—the first such surplus since 1969. In foreign policy, Clinton ordered U.S. military intervention in the Bosnian and Kosovo wars, signed the Iraq Liberation Act in opposition to Saddam Hussein, participated in the 2000 Camp David Summit to advance the Israeli–Palestinian peace process, and assisted the Northern Ireland peace process. In 1998, Clinton was impeached by the House of Representatives, becoming the second U.S. president to be impeached, after Andrew Johnson.[2] The impeachment was based on accusations that Clinton committed perjury and obstruction of justice for the purpose of concealing his affair with Monica Lewinsky, a 22-year-old White House intern. He was acquitted by the Senate and completed his term in office. Clinton left office with the highest end-of-office approval rating of any U.S. president since World War II, and has continually received high scores in the historical rankings of U.S. presidents. Since leaving office, he has been involved in public speaking and humanitarian work. He created the William J. Clinton Foundation to address international causes such as the prevention of AIDS and global warming. In 2004, Clinton published his autobiography, My Life. In 2009, he was named the United Nations Special Envoy to Haiti and after the 2010 Haiti earthquake, he teamed up with George W. Bush to form the Clinton Bush Haiti Fund. In addition, he secured the release of two American journalists imprisoned by North Korea, visiting the capital Pyongyang in 2009 and negotiating their release with then-North Korean leader Kim Jong-il. Contents 1 Early life and career 2 College and law school years 2.1 Georgetown University 2.2 Oxford 2.3 Vietnam War opposition and draft controversy 2.4 Law school 3 Governor of Arkansas (1979–1981, 1983–1992) 3.1 1988 Democratic presidential primaries 4 Presidency (1993–2001) 4.1 1992 presidential campaign 4.2 First term (1993–1997) 4.3 1996 presidential election 4.4 Second term (1997–2001) 4.4.1 Impeachment and acquittal 4.4.2 Pardons and commutations 4.5 Military and foreign affairs 4.5.1 Somalia 4.5.2 Rwanda 4.5.3 Bosnia and Herzegovina 4.5.4 Irish peace talks 4.5.5 Iran 4.5.6 Osama bin Laden 4.5.7 Kosovo 4.5.8 Iraq 4.5.9 Vietnam 4.5.10 China 4.5.11 Israeli-Palestinian conflict 4.6 Judicial appointments 5 Public opinion 6 Public image 7 Sexual misconduct allegations 8 Post-presidency (2001–present) 8.1 Activities until 2008 campaign 8.2 2008 presidential election 8.3 After the 2008 election 8.4 2016 presidential election 8.5 After the 2016 election 8.6 Post-presidential health concerns 8.7 Wealth 9 Honors and recognition 10 Electoral history 11 Authored books 12 Recordings 13 See also 14 References 15 Further reading 15.1 Primary sources 15.2 Popular books 15.3 Scholarly studies 16 External links 16.1 Official 16.2 Interviews, speeches, and statements 16.3 Media coverage 16.4 Other Early life and career Further information: Early life and career of Bill Clinton Clinton's birthplace in Hope, Arkansas Part of a series on New Democrats Ideology Centrism Clintonism Third Way Organizations Coalition for a Democratic Majority Democratic Leadership Council Moderate Dems Working Group New Democrat Coalition New Democrat Network Progressive Policy Institute Senate Centrist Coalition Third Way Politics portal v t e Clinton was born William Jefferson Blythe III on August 19, 1946, at Julia Chester Hospital in Hope, Arkansas.[3][4] He is the son of William Jefferson Blythe Jr., a traveling salesman who had died in an automobile accident three months before his birth, and Virginia Dell Cassidy (later Virginia Kelley).[5] His parents had married on September 4, 1943, but this union later proved to be bigamous, as Blythe was still married to his third wife.[6] Virginia traveled to New Orleans to study nursing soon after Bill was born, leaving him in Hope with her parents Eldridge and Edith Cassidy, who owned and ran a small grocery store.[4] At a time when the southern United States was racially segregated, Clinton's grandparents sold goods on credit to people of all races.[4][7][8][9][10] In 1950, Bill's mother returned from nursing school and married Roger Clinton Sr., who co-owned an automobile dealership in Hot Springs, Arkansas, with his brother and Earl T. Ricks.[4] The family moved to Hot Springs in 1950.[11] Although he immediately assumed use of his stepfather's surname, it was not until Clinton turned 15[12] that he formally adopted the surname Clinton as a gesture toward his stepfather.[4] He has described his stepfather as a gambler and an alcoholic who regularly abused his mother and half-brother, Roger Clinton Jr.. Clinton threatened his stepfather with violence multiple times to protect them.[4][13] In Hot Springs, Clinton attended St. John's Catholic Elementary School, Ramble Elementary School, and Hot Springs High School, where he was an active student leader, avid reader, and musician.[4] Clinton was in the chorus and played the tenor saxophone, winning first chair in the state band's saxophone section. He briefly considered dedicating his life to music, but as he noted in his autobiography My Life: Sometime in my sixteenth year, I decided I wanted to be in public life as an elected official. I loved music and thought I could be very good, but I knew I would never be John Coltrane or Stan Getz. I was interested in medicine and thought I could be a fine doctor, but I knew I would never be Michael DeBakey. But I knew I could be great in public service.[4] Clinton began an interest in law at Hot Springs High, when he took up the challenge to argue the defense of the ancient Roman senator Catiline in a mock trial in his Latin class.[14] After a vigorous defense that made use of his "budding rhetorical and political skills", he told the Latin teacher Elizabeth Buck it "made him realize that someday he would study law".[15] Clinton has identified two influential moments in his life, both occurring in 1963, that contributed to his decision to become a public figure. One was his visit as a Boys Nation senator to the White House to meet President John F. Kennedy.[4][13] The other was watching Martin Luther King Jr.'s 1963 "I Have a Dream" speech on TV, which impressed him enough that he later memorized it.[16] College and law school years Georgetown University Clinton ran for president of the Student Council while attending the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University. With the aid of scholarships, Clinton attended the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University in Washington, D.C., receiving a Bachelor of Science in Foreign Service degree in 1968. In 1964 and 1965, Clinton won elections for class president.[17] From 1964 to 1967, he was an intern and then a clerk in the office of Arkansas Senator J. William Fulbright.[4] While in college, he became a brother of co-ed service fraternity Alpha Phi Omega[18] and was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. Clinton was also a member of the Order of DeMolay,[19] a youth group affiliated with Freemasonry, but he never became a Freemason. He is a member of Kappa Kappa Psi honorary band fraternity.[20] Oxford Upon graduating from Georgetown in 1968, Clinton won a Rhodes Scholarship to University College, Oxford, where he initially read for a B.Phil. in philosophy, politics, and economics but transferred to a B.Litt. in politics and, ultimately, a B.Phil. in politics.[21] Clinton did not expect to return for the second year because of the draft and he switched programs; this type of activity was common among other Rhodes Scholars from his cohort. He had received an offer to study at Yale Law School, Yale University, but he left early to return to the United States and did not receive a degree from Oxford.[13][22][23] During his time at Oxford, Clinton befriended fellow American Rhodes Scholar Frank Aller. In 1969, Aller received a draft letter that mandated deployment to the Vietnam War. Aller's 1971 suicide had an influential impact on Clinton.[21][24] British writer and feminist Sara Maitland said of Clinton, "I remember Bill and Frank Aller taking me to a pub in Walton Street in the summer term of 1969 and talking to me about the Vietnam War. I knew nothing about it, and when Frank began to describe the napalming of civilians I began to cry. Bill said that feeling bad wasn't good enough. That was the first time I encountered the idea that liberal sensitivities weren't enough and you had to do something about such things".[21] He also developed an interest in rugby union, which he played at Oxford.[25] While Clinton was president in 1994, he received an honorary degree and a fellowship from the University of Oxford, specifically for being "a doughty and tireless champion of the cause of world peace", having "a powerful collaborator in his wife," and for winning "general applause for his achievement of resolving the gridlock that prevented an agreed budget".[22][26] Vietnam War opposition and draft controversy During the Vietnam War, Clinton received educational draft deferments while he was in England in 1968 and 1969.[27] While at Oxford, he participated in Vietnam War protests and organized a Moratorium to End the War in Vietnam event in October 1969.[4] He was planning to attend law school in the U.S. and knew he might lose his deferment. Clinton tried unsuccessfully to obtain positions in the National Guard or Air Force, and he then made arrangements to join the Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC) program at the University of Arkansas.[28] He subsequently decided not to join the ROTC, saying in a letter to the officer in charge of the program that he opposed the war, but did not think it was honorable to use ROTC, National Guard, or Reserve service to avoid serving in Vietnam. He further stated that because he opposed the war, he would not volunteer to serve in uniform, but would subject himself to the draft, and would serve if selected only as a way "to maintain my political viability within the system".[29] Clinton registered for the draft and received a high number (311), meaning that those whose birthdays had been drawn as numbers 1 to 310 would be drafted before him, making it unlikely he would be called up. (In fact, the highest number drafted was 195.)[30] Colonel Eugene Holmes, the Army officer who had been involved with Clinton's ROTC application, suspected that Clinton attempted to manipulate the situation to avoid the draft and avoid serving in uniform. He issued a notarized statement during the 1992 presidential campaign: I was informed by the draft board that it was of interest to Senator Fulbright's office that Bill Clinton, a Rhodes Scholar, should be admitted to the ROTC program ... I believe that he purposely deceived me, using the possibility of joining the ROTC as a ploy to work with the draft board to delay his induction and get a new draft classification.[31] During the 1992 campaign, it was revealed that Clinton's uncle had attempted to secure him a position in the Navy Reserve, which would have prevented him from being deployed to Vietnam. This effort was unsuccessful and Clinton said in 1992 that he had been unaware of it until then.[32] Although legal, Clinton's actions with respect to the draft and deciding whether to serve in the military were criticized during his first presidential campaign by conservatives and some Vietnam veterans, some of whom charged that he had used Fulbright's influence to avoid military service.[33][34] Clinton's 1992 campaign manager, James Carville, successfully argued that Clinton's letter in which he declined to join the ROTC should be made public, insisting that voters, many of whom had also opposed the Vietnam War, would understand and appreciate his position.[35] Law school After Oxford, Clinton attended Yale Law School and earned a Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree in 1973.[4][13] In 1971, he met his future wife, Hillary Rodham, in the Yale Law Library; she was a class year ahead of him.[4][36] They began dating and were soon inseparable. After only about a month, Clinton postponed his summer plans to be a coordinator for the George McGovern campaign for the 1972 United States presidential election in order to move in with her in California.[37] The couple continued living together in New Haven when they returned to law school.[38] Clinton eventually moved to Texas with Rodham in 1972 to take a job leading McGovern's effort there. He spent considerable time in Dallas, at the campaign's local headquarters on Lemmon Avenue, where he had an office. Clinton worked with future two-term mayor of Dallas Ron Kirk,[39] future governor of Texas Ann Richards,[40] and then unknown television director (and future filmmaker) Steven Spielberg.[41] Bill married Hillary on October 11, 1975, and their only child, Chelsea, was born on February 27, 1980.[36] Governor of Arkansas (1979–1981, 1983–1992) Further information: Electoral history of Bill Clinton After graduating from Yale Law School, Clinton returned to Arkansas and became a law professor at the University of Arkansas. In 1974, he ran for the House of Representatives. Running in a conservative district against incumbent Republican John Paul Hammerschmidt, Clinton's campaign was bolstered by the anti-Republican and anti-incumbent mood resulting from the Watergate scandal. Hammerschmidt, who had received 77 percent of the vote in 1972, defeated Clinton by only a 52 percent to 48 percent margin. In 1976, Clinton ran for Arkansas attorney general. With only minor opposition in the primary and no opposition at all in the general election,[42] Clinton was elected.[13] Newly elected Governor of Arkansas Bill Clinton meets with President Jimmy Carter in 1978, fifteen years before assuming the nation's highest office. In 1978, Clinton entered the Arkansas gubernatorial primary. At just 31 years old, he was one of the youngest gubernatorial candidates in the state's history. Clinton was elected Governor of Arkansas in 1978, having defeated the Republican candidate Lynn Lowe, a farmer from Texarkana. Clinton was only 32 years old when he took office, the youngest governor in the country at the time and the second youngest governor in the history of Arkansas.[43] Due to his youthful appearance, Clinton was often called the "Boy Governor".[44][45][46] He worked on educational reform and directed the maintenance of Arkansas's roads, with wife Hillary leading a successful committee on urban health care reform. However, his term included an unpopular motor vehicle tax and citizens' anger over the escape of Cuban refugees (from the Mariel boatlift) detained in Fort Chaffee in 1980. Monroe Schwarzlose, of Kingsland in Cleveland County, polled 31 percent of the vote against Clinton in the Democratic gubernatorial primary of 1980. Some suggested Schwarzlose's unexpected voter turnout foreshadowed Clinton's defeat by Republican challenger Frank D. White in the general election that year. As Clinton once joked, he was the youngest ex-governor in the nation's history.[13] Clinton joined friend Bruce Lindsey's Little Rock law firm of Wright, Lindsey and Jennings.[47] In 1982, he was elected governor a second time and kept the office for ten years. Effective with the 1986 election, Arkansas had changed its gubernatorial term of office from two to four years. During his term, he helped transform Arkansas's economy and improved the state's educational system.[48] For senior citizens, he removed the sales tax from medications and increased the home property-tax exemption.[49] He became a leading figure among the New Democrats, a group of Democrats who advocated welfare reform, smaller government, and other policies not supported by liberals. Formally organized as the Democratic Leadership Council (DLC), the New Democrats argued that in light of President Ronald Reagan's landslide victory in 1984, the Democratic Party needed to adopt a more centrist political stance in order to succeed at the national level.[49][50] Clinton delivered the Democratic response to Reagan's 1985 State of the Union Address and served as chair of the National Governors Association from 1986 to 1987, bringing him to an audience beyond Arkansas.[13] Governor and Mrs. Clinton attend the Dinner Honoring the Nation's Governors in the White House with President Ronald Reagan and first lady Nancy Reagan, 1987. In the early 1980s, Clinton made reform of the Arkansas education system a top priority of his gubernatorial administration. The Arkansas Education Standards Committee was chaired by Clinton's wife Hillary, who was also an attorney as well as the chair of the Legal Services Corporation. The committee transformed Arkansas's education system. Proposed reforms included more spending for schools (supported by a sales-tax increase), better opportunities for gifted children, vocational education, higher teachers' salaries, more course variety, and compulsory teacher competency exams. The reforms passed in September 1983 after Clinton called a special legislative session—the longest in Arkansas history.[48] Many have considered this the greatest achievement of the Clinton governorship.[13][49] He defeated four Republican candidates for governor: Lowe (1978), White (1982 and 1986), Jonesboro businessmen Woody Freeman (1984), and Sheffield Nelson of Little Rock (1990).[42] Also in the 1980s, the Clintons' personal and business affairs included transactions that became the basis of the Whitewater controversy investigation, which later dogged his presidential administration.[51] After extensive investigation over several years, no indictments were made against the Clintons related to the years in Arkansas.[13][52] According to some sources, Clinton was a death penalty opponent in his early years, but he eventually switched positions.[53][54] During Clinton's term, Arkansas performed its first executions since 1964 (the death penalty had been reinstated in 1976).[55] As Governor, he oversaw four executions: one by electric chair and three by lethal injection. Later, Clinton was the first president to pardon a death-row inmate since the federal death penalty was reinstated in 1988.[56] 1988 Democratic presidential primaries In 1987, the media speculated that Clinton would enter the presidential race after incumbent New York governor Mario Cuomo declined to run and Democratic front-runner Gary Hart withdrew owing to revelations of multiple marital infidelities.[57] Clinton decided to remain as Arkansas governor (following consideration for the potential candidacy of Hillary Rodham Clinton for governor, initially favored—but ultimately vetoed—by the First Lady).[58] For the nomination, Clinton endorsed Massachusetts governor Michael Dukakis. He gave the nationally televised opening night address at the 1988 Democratic National Convention, but his speech, which was 33 minutes long and twice the length it was expected to be, was criticized for being too long[59] and poorly delivered.[60] Clinton presented himself both as a moderate and as a member of the New Democrat wing of the Democratic Party, and he headed the moderate Democratic Leadership Council in 1990 and 1991.[49][61] Presidency (1993–2001) Main article: Presidency of Bill Clinton During his presidency, Clinton advocated for a wide variety of legislation and programs, most of which were enacted into law or implemented by the executive branch. His policies, particularly the North American Free Trade Agreement and welfare reform, have been attributed to a centrist Third Way philosophy of governance.[62][63] His policy of fiscal conservatism helped to reduce deficits on budgetary matters.[64][65] Clinton presided over the longest period of peacetime economic expansion in American history.[66][67][68] The Congressional Budget Office reported budget surpluses of $69 billion in 1998, $126 billion in 1999, and $236 billion in 2000,[69] during the last three years of Clinton's presidency.[70] Over the years of the recorded surplus, the gross national debt rose each year. At the end of the fiscal year (September 30) for each of the years a surplus was recorded, The U.S. treasury reported a gross debt of $5.413 trillion in 1997, $5.526 trillion in 1998, $5.656 trillion in 1999, and $5.674 trillion in 2000.[71][72] Over the same period, the Office of Management and Budget reported an end of year (December 31) gross debt of $5.369 trillion in 1997, $5.478 trillion in 1998, $5.606 in 1999, and $5.629 trillion in 2000.[73] At the end of his presidency, the Clintons moved to Chappaqua, New York, in order to satisfy a residency requirement for his wife to win election as a U.S. Senator from New York. 1992 presidential campaign Further information: 1992 Democratic Party presidential primaries, 1992 United States presidential election, and Bill Clinton 1992 presidential campaign In the first primary contest, the Iowa Caucus, Clinton finished a distant third to Iowa senator Tom Harkin. During the campaign for the New Hampshire primary, reports surfaced that Clinton had engaged in an extramarital affair with Gennifer Flowers. Clinton fell far behind former Massachusetts senator Paul Tsongas in the New Hampshire polls.[13] Following Super Bowl XXVI, Clinton and his wife Hillary went on 60 Minutes to rebuff the charges. Their television appearance was a calculated risk, but Clinton regained several delegates. He finished second to Tsongas in the New Hampshire primary, but after trailing badly in the polls and coming within single digits of winning, the media viewed it as a victory. News outlets labeled him "The Comeback Kid" for earning a firm second-place finish.[74] Winning the big prizes of Florida and Texas and many of the Southern primaries on Super Tuesday gave Clinton a sizable delegate lead. However, former California governor Jerry Brown was scoring victories and Clinton had yet to win a significant contest outside his native South.[13][61] With no major Southern state remaining, Clinton targeted New York, which had many delegates. He scored a resounding victory in New York City, shedding his image as a regional candidate.[61] Having been transformed into the consensus candidate, he secured the Democratic Party nomination, finishing with a victory in Jerry Brown's home state of California.[13] The Clintons in a White House Christmas portrait, 1993 During the campaign, questions of conflict of interest regarding state business and the politically powerful Rose Law Firm, at which Hillary Rodham Clinton was a partner, arose. Clinton argued the questions were moot because all transactions with the state had been deducted before determining Hillary's firm pay.[4][75] Further concern arose when Bill Clinton announced that, with Hillary, voters would be getting two presidents "for the price of one".[76] Clinton was still the governor of Arkansas while campaigning for U.S. president, and he returned to his home state to see that Ricky Ray Rector would be executed. After killing a police officer and a civilian, Rector shot himself in the head, leading to what his lawyers said was a state where he could still talk but did not understand the idea of death. According to both Arkansas state law and Federal law, a seriously mentally impaired inmate cannot be executed. The courts disagreed with the allegation of grave mental impairment and allowed the execution. Clinton's return to Arkansas for the execution was framed in an article for The New York Times as a possible political move to counter "soft on crime" accusations.[53][77] Bush's approval ratings were around 80 percent during the Gulf War, and he was described as unbeatable. When Bush compromised with Democrats to try to lower Federal deficits, he reneged on his promise not to raise taxes, which hurt his approval rating. Clinton repeatedly condemned Bush for making a promise he failed to keep.[61] By election time, the economy was souring and Bush saw his approval rating plummet to just slightly over 40 percent.[61][78] Finally, conservatives were previously united by anti-communism, but with the end of the Cold War, the party lacked a uniting issue. When Pat Buchanan and Pat Robertson addressed Christian themes at the Republican National Convention—with Bush criticizing Democrats for omitting God from their platform—many moderates were alienated.[79] Clinton then pointed to his moderate, "New Democrat" record as governor of Arkansas, though some on the more liberal side of the party remained suspicious.[80] Many Democrats who had supported Ronald Reagan and Bush in previous elections switched their support to Clinton.[81] Clinton and his running mate, Al Gore, toured the country during the final weeks of the campaign, shoring up support and pledging a "new beginning".[81] On March 26, 1992, during a Democratic fund raiser of the presidential campaign, Robert Rafsky confronted then Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas and asked what he is going to do about AIDS, to which Clinton replied, “I feel your pain.”[82] The televised exchange led to AIDS becoming an issue in the ’92 presidential election. On April 4th, then candidate Clinton met with members of ACT UP and other leading AIDS advocates to discuss his AIDS agenda and agreed to make a major AIDS policy speech, to have people with HIV speak to the Democratic Convention, and to sign onto the AIDS United Action five point plan.[83] 1992 electoral vote results Clinton won the 1992 presidential election (370 electoral votes) against Republican incumbent George H. W. Bush (168 electoral votes) and billionaire populist Ross Perot (zero electoral votes), who ran as an independent on a platform that focused on domestic issues. Bush's steep decline in public approval was a significant part of Clinton's success.[81] Clinton's victory in the election ended twelve years of Republican rule of the White House and twenty of the previous twenty-four years. The election gave Democrats full control of the United States Congress,[5] the first time one party controlled both the executive and legislative branches since Democrats held the 96th United States Congress during the presidency of Jimmy Carter.[84][85] First term (1993–1997) First inauguration of Bill Clinton (January 20, 1993) Play media Video of the First inauguration of Bill Clinton First inauguration of Bill Clinton (January 20, 1993) audio only version Problems playing these files? See media help. "Our democracy must be not only the envy of the world but the engine of our own renewal. There is nothing wrong with America that cannot be cured by what is right with America." Inaugural address, January 20, 1993.[86] Clinton was inaugurated as the 42nd president of the United States on January 20, 1993. Less than a month after taking office, he signed the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, which required large employers to allow employees to take unpaid leave for pregnancy or a serious medical condition. This action had bipartisan support,[87] and was popular with the public.[88] Two days after taking office, on January 22, 1993—the 20th anniversary of the U.S. Supreme Court decision in Roe v. Wade—Clinton reversed restrictions on domestic and international family planning programs that had been imposed by Reagan and Bush.[89] Clinton said abortion should be kept "safe, legal, and rare"—a slogan that had been suggested by University of California, San Diego political scientist Samuel L. Popkin and first used by Clinton in December 1991, while campaigning.[90] During the eight years of the Clinton administration, the U.S. abortion rate declined by about 18.4 percent.[91] On February 15, 1993, Clinton made his first address to the nation, announcing his plan to raise taxes to close a budget deficit.[92] Two days later, in a nationally televised address to a joint session of Congress, Clinton unveiled his economic plan. The plan focused on reducing the deficit rather than on cutting taxes for the middle class, which had been high on his campaign agenda.[93] Clinton's advisers pressured him to raise taxes, based on the theory that a smaller federal budget deficit would reduce bond interest rates.[94] On May 19, 1993, Clinton fired seven employees of the White House Travel Office. This caused the White House travel office controversy even though the travel office staff served at the pleasure of the president and could be dismissed without cause. The White House responded to the controversy by claiming that the firings were done in response to financial improprieties that had been revealed by a brief FBI investigation.[95] Critics contended that the firings had been done to allow friends of the Clintons to take over the travel business and the involvement of the FBI was unwarranted.[96] In August, Clinton signed the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993, which passed Congress without a Republican vote. It cut taxes for 15 million low-income families, made tax cuts available to 90 percent of small businesses,[97] and raised taxes on the wealthiest 1.2 percent of taxpayers. Additionally, it mandated that the budget be balanced over a number of years through the implementation of spending restraints.[98] Clinton and Vice President Al Gore on the South Lawn, August 10, 1993 On September 22, 1993, Clinton made a major speech to Congress regarding a health care reform plan; the program aimed at achieving universal coverage through a national health care plan. This was one of the most prominent items on Clinton's legislative agenda and resulted from a task force headed by Hillary Clinton. The plan was well received in political circles, but it was eventually doomed by well-organized lobby opposition from conservatives, the American Medical Association, and the health insurance industry. However, Clinton biographer John F. Harris said the program failed because of a lack of coordination within the White House.[52] Despite the Democratic majority in Congress, the effort to create a national health care system ultimately died when compromise legislation by George J. Mitchell failed to gain a majority of support in August 1994. The failure of the bill was the first major legislative defeat of the Clinton administration.[49][52] In November 1993, David Hale—the source of criminal allegations against Bill Clinton in the Whitewater controversy—alleged that while he was governor of Arkansas, Clinton pressured him to provide an illegal $300,000 loan to Susan McDougal, the Clintons' partner in the Whitewater land deal.[99] A U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission investigation resulted in convictions against the McDougals for their role in the Whitewater project, but the Clintons themselves were never charged, and Clinton maintains his and his wife's innocence in the affair. On November 30, 1993, Clinton signed into law the Brady Bill, which mandated federal background checks on people who purchase firearms in the United States. The law also imposed a five-day waiting period on purchases, until the NICS system was implemented in 1998. He also expanded the Earned Income Tax Credit, a subsidy for low-income workers.[52] In December of the same year, allegations by Arkansas state troopers Larry Patterson and Roger Perry were first reported by David Brock in The American Spectator. In the affair later known as "Troopergate", the officers alleged that they had arranged sexual liaisons for Clinton back when he was governor of Arkansas. The story mentioned a woman named Paula, a reference to Paula Jones. Brock later apologized to Clinton, saying the article was politically motivated "bad journalism", and that "the troopers were greedy and had slimy motives".[100] Yitzhak Rabin, Clinton and Yasser Arafat during the Oslo Accords on September 13, 1993 That month, Clinton implemented a Department of Defense directive known as "Don't Ask, Don't Tell", which allowed gay men and women to serve in the armed services provided they kept their sexual preferences a secret. The Act forbade the military from inquiring about an individual's sexual orientation.[101] The policy was developed as a compromise after Clinton's proposal to allow gays to serve openly in the military met staunch opposition from prominent Congressional Republicans and Democrats, including senators John McCain (R-AZ) and Sam Nunn (D-GA). According to David Mixner, Clinton's support for the compromise led to a heated dispute with Vice President Al Gore, who felt that "the President should lift the ban ... even though [his executive order] was sure to be overridden by the Congress".[102] Some gay-rights advocates criticized Clinton for not going far enough and accused him of making his campaign promise to get votes and contributions.[103] Their position was that Clinton should have integrated the military by executive order, noting that President Harry S. Truman used executive order to racially desegregate the armed forces. Clinton's defenders argued that an executive order might have prompted the Senate to write the exclusion of gays into law, potentially making it harder to integrate the military in the future.[49] Later in his presidency, in 1999, Clinton criticized the way the policy was implemented, saying he did not think any serious person could say it was not "out of whack".[104] The policy remained controversial, and was finally repealed in 2011, removing open sexual orientation as a reason for dismissal from the armed forces.[105] Remarks on the Signing of NAFTA (December 8, 1993) Play media Clinton's December 8, 1993 remarks on the signing of the North American Free Trade Agreement Remarks on the Signing of NAFTA (December 8, 1993) audio only version Problems playing these files? See media help. On January 1, 1994, Clinton signed the North American Free Trade Agreement into law.[106] Throughout his first year in office, Clinton consistently supported ratification of the treaty by the U.S. Senate. Clinton and most of his allies in the Democratic Leadership Committee strongly supported free trade measures; there remained, however, strong disagreement within the party. Opposition came chiefly from anti-trade Republicans, protectionist Democrats and supporters of Ross Perot. The bill passed the house with 234 votes against 200 opposed (132 Republicans and 102 Democrats voting in favor; 156 Democrats, 43 Republicans, and one independent against). The treaty was then ratified by the Senate and signed into law by the president.[106] The Omnibus Crime Bill, which Clinton signed into law in September 1994,[107] made many changes to U.S. crime and law enforcement legislation including the expansion of the death penalty to include crimes not resulting in death, such as running a large-scale drug enterprise. During Clinton's re-election campaign he said, "My 1994 crime bill expanded the death penalty for drug kingpins, murderers of federal law enforcement officers, and nearly 60 additional categories of violent felons."[108] It also included a subsection of assault weapons ban for a ten-year period.[109] On October 21, 1994, the Clinton administration launched the first official White House website, whitehouse.gov.[110][111] The site was followed with three more versions, resulting in the final edition launched in 2000.[112][113] The White House website was part of a wider movement of the Clinton administration toward web-based communication. According to Robert Longley, "Clinton and Gore were responsible for pressing almost all federal agencies, the U.S. court system and the U.S. military onto the Internet, thus opening up America's government to more of America's citizens than ever before. On July 17, 1996, Clinton issued Executive Order 13011—Federal Information Technology, ordering the heads of all federal agencies to utilize information technology fully to make the information of the agency easily accessible to the public."[114] After two years of Democratic Party control, the Democrats lost control of Congress to the Republicans in the mid-term elections in 1994, for the first time in forty years.[115] A speech delivered by President Bill Clinton at the December 6, 1995 White House Conference on HIV/AIDS projected that a cure for AIDS and a vaccine to prevent further infection would be developed. The President focused on his administration's accomplishments and efforts related to the epidemic, including an accelerated drug-approval process. He also condemned homophobia and discrimination against people with HIV. Clinton announced three new initiatives: creating a special working group to coordinate AIDS research throughout the Federal government; convening public health experts to develop an action plan that integrates HIV prevention with substance abuse prevention; and launching a new effort by the Justice Department to ensure that health care facilities provide equal access to people with HIV and AIDS. [116] Clinton's coat of arms, granted by the Chief Herald of Ireland in 1995 The White House FBI files controversy of June 1996 arose concerning improper access by the White House to FBI security-clearance documents. Craig Livingstone, head of the White House Office of Personnel Security, improperly requested, and received from the FBI, background report files without asking permission of the subject individuals; many of these were employees of former Republican administrations.[117] In March 2000, Independent Counsel Robert Ray determined there was no credible evidence of any crime. Ray's report further stated, "there was no substantial and credible evidence that any senior White House official was involved" in seeking the files.[118] On September 21, 1996, Clinton signed into law the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA), which defined marriage for federal purposes as the legal union of one man and one woman; the legislation allowed individual states to refuse to recognize gay marriages that were performed in other states.[119] Paul Yandura, speaking for the White House gay and lesbian liaison office, said Clinton's signing DOMA "was a political decision that they made at the time of a re-election". In defense of his actions, Clinton has said that DOMA was intended to "head off an attempt to send a constitutional amendment banning gay marriage to the states", a possibility he described as highly likely in the context of a "very reactionary Congress".[120] Administration spokesman Richard Socarides said, "the alternatives we knew were going to be far worse, and it was time to move on and get the president re-elected."[121] Clinton himself said DOMA was something "which the Republicans put on the ballot to try to get the base vote for Bush up, I think it's obvious that something had to be done to try to keep the Republican Congress from presenting that".[122] Others were more critical. The veteran gay rights and gay marriage activist Evan Wolfson has called these claims "historic revisionism".[121] In a July 2, 2011, editorial The New York Times opined, "The Defense of Marriage Act was enacted in 1996 as an election-year wedge issue, signed by President Bill Clinton in one of his worst policy moments."[123] Ultimately, in United States v. Windsor, the U.S. Supreme Court struck down DOMA in June 2013.[124] Despite DOMA, Clinton was the first president to select openly gay persons for administrative positions,[125] and he is generally credited as being the first president to publicly champion gay rights.[126] During his presidency, Clinton issued two substantially controversial executive orders on behalf of gay rights, the first lifting the ban on security clearances for LGBT federal employees[127] and the second outlawing discrimination based on sexual orientation in the federal civilian workforce.[128] Under Clinton's leadership, federal funding for HIV/AIDS research, prevention and treatment more than doubled.[129] Clinton also pushed for passing hate crimes laws for gays and for the private sector Employment Non-Discrimination Act, which, buoyed by his lobbying, failed to pass the Senate by a single vote in 1996.[130] Advocacy for these issues, paired with the politically unpopular nature of the gay rights movement at the time, led to enthusiastic support for Clinton's election and reelection by the Human Rights Campaign.[126] Clinton came out for gay marriage in July 2009[131] and urged the Supreme Court to overturn DOMA in 2013.[132] He was later honored by GLAAD for his prior pro-gay stances and his reversal on DOMA.[133] "When I took office, only high energy physicists had ever heard of what is called the Worldwide Web ... Now even my cat has its own page." Bill Clinton's announcement of Next Generation Internet initiative, October 1996.[134] The 1996 United States campaign finance controversy was an alleged effort by the People's Republic of China (PRC) to influence the domestic policies of the United States, before and during the Clinton administration, and involved the fundraising practices of the administration itself.[135][136] Despite the evidence,[135][137] the Chinese government denied all accusations.[138] As part of a 1996 initiative to curb illegal immigration, Clinton signed the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act (IIRIRA) on September 30, 1996. Appointed by Clinton,[139] the U.S. Commission on Immigration Reform recommended reducing legal immigration from about 800,000 people a year to about 550,000.[140][141] Ken Gormley, author of The Death of American Virtue: Clinton vs. Starr, reveals in his book that Clinton narrowly escaped possible assassination in the Philippines in November 1996. During his visit to the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum in Manila, while he was on his way to meet with a senior member of the Philippine government, Clinton was saved from danger minutes before his motorcade was scheduled to drive over a bridge charged with a timed improvised explosive device (IED).[142] According to officials, the IED was large enough to "blow up the entire presidential motorcade".[143] Details of the plot were revealed to Gormley by Lewis C. Merletti, former member of the presidential protection detail and Director of the Secret Service. Intelligence officers intercepted a radio transmission indicating there was a wedding cake under a bridge.[142] This alerted Merletti and others as Clinton's motorcade was scheduled to drive over a major bridge in downtown Manila.[143] Once more, the word "wedding" was the code name used by a terrorist group for a past assassination attempt.[143] Merletti wanted to reroute the motorcade, but the alternate route would add forty-five minutes to the drive time. Clinton was very angry, as he was already late for the meeting, but following the advice of the secret service possibly saved his life. Two other bombs had been discovered in Manila earlier in the week so the threat level that day was high.[144] Security personnel at the Manila International Airport uncovered several grenades and a timing device in a travel bag.[145] Officials also discovered a bomb near a major U.S. naval base.[145] The president was scheduled to visit both these locations later in the week. An intense investigation took place into the events in Manila and it was discovered that the group behind the bridge bomb was a Saudi terrorist group in Afghanistan known as al-Qaeda and the plot was masterminded by Osama bin Laden.[143] Until recently, this thwarted assassination attempt was never made public and remained top secret. Only top members of the U.S. intelligence community were aware of these events.[143] 1996 presidential election 1996 electoral vote results In the 1996 presidential election, Clinton was re-elected, receiving 49.2 percent of the popular vote over Republican Bob Dole (40.7 percent of the popular vote) and Reform candidate Ross Perot (8.4 percent of the popular vote). Clinton received 379 of the Electoral College votes, with Dole receiving 159 electoral votes. He became the first Democratic incumbent since Lyndon B. Johnson to be elected to a second term and the first Democrat since Franklin D. Roosevelt to be elected president more than once.[146] Second term (1997–2001) In the January 1997, State of the Union address, Clinton proposed a new initiative to provide health coverage to up to five million children. Senators Ted Kennedy—a Democrat—and Orrin Hatch—a Republican—teamed up with Hillary Rodham Clinton and her staff in 1997, and succeeded in passing legislation forming the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), the largest (successful) health care reform in the years of the Clinton Presidency. That year, Hillary Clinton shepherded through Congress the Adoption and Safe Families Act and two years later she succeeded in helping pass the Foster Care Independence Act. Bill Clinton negotiated the passage of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 by the Republican Congress. In October 1997, he announced he was getting hearing aids, due to hearing loss attributed to his age, and his time spent as a musician in his youth.[147] In 1999 he signed into law the Financial Services Modernization Act also known as the Gramm–Leach–Bliley Act, which repealed the part of the Glass–Steagall Act that had prohibited a bank from offering a full range of investment, commercial banking, and insurance services since its enactment in 1933.[148] Impeachment and acquittal Main article: Impeachment of Bill Clinton Clinton's impeachment trial in 1999 Clinton was impeached on December 19, 1998 by the House of Representatives. The House voted 228–206 to impeach him for perjury to a grand jury[149] and voted 221–212 to impeach him for obstruction of justice.[150] Clinton was only the second U.S. president (after Andrew Johnson) to be impeached.[151][152] Impeachment proceedings were based on allegations that Clinton had illegally lied about and covered up his relationship with 22-year-old White House (and later Department of Defense) employee Monica Lewinsky.[153] After the Starr Report was submitted to the House providing what it termed "substantial and credible information that President Clinton Committed Acts that May Constitute Grounds for an Impeachment",[154] the House began impeachment hearings against Clinton before the mid-term elections. To hold impeachment proceedings, the Republican leadership called a lame-duck session in December 1998. Future president Donald Trump and Clinton shaking hands at Trump Tower, June 2000 While the House Judiciary Committee hearings ended in a straight party-line vote, there was lively debate on the House floor. The two charges passed in the House (largely with Republican support, but with a handful of Democratic votes as well) were for perjury and obstruction of justice. The perjury charge arose from Clinton's testimony before a grand jury that had been convened to investigate perjury he may have committed in his sworn deposition during Jones v. Clinton, Paula Jones's sexual harassment lawsuit.[155] The obstruction charge was based on his actions to conceal his relationship with Lewinsky before and after that deposition. The Senate later acquitted Clinton of both charges.[156] The Senate refused to meet to hold an impeachment trial before the end of the old term, so the trial was held over until the next Congress. Clinton was represented by Washington law firm Williams & Connolly.[157] The Senate finished a twenty-one-day trial on February 12, 1999, with the vote of 55 Not Guilty/45 Guilty on the perjury charge[156] and 50 Not Guilty/50 Guilty on the obstruction of justice charge.[158] Both votes fell short of the constitutional two-thirds majority requirement to convict and remove an officeholder. The final vote was generally along party lines, with no Democrats voting guilty, and only a handful of Republicans voting not guilty.[156] On January 19, 2001, Clinton's law license was suspended for five years after he acknowledged to an Arkansas circuit court that he had engaged in conduct prejudicial to the administration of justice in the Jones case.[159][160] Pardons and commutations Clinton controversially issued 141 pardons and 36 commutations on his last day in office on January 20, 2001.[52][161] Most of the controversy surrounded Marc Rich and allegations that Hillary Clinton's brother, Hugh Rodham, accepted payments in return for influencing the president's decision-making regarding the pardons.[162] Federal prosecutor Mary Jo White was appointed to investigate the pardon of Rich. She was later replaced by then-Republican James Comey, who found no wrongdoing on Clinton's part. Some of Clinton's pardons remain a point of controversy.[163] Military and foreign affairs Further information: Foreign policy of the Bill Clinton administration Col. Paul Fletcher, USAF and Clinton speak before boarding Air Force One, November 4, 1999. Somalia The Battle of Mogadishu occurred in Somalia in 1993. During the operation, two U.S. helicopters were shot down by rocket-propelled grenade attacks to their tail rotors, trapping soldiers behind enemy lines. This resulted in an urban battle that killed 18 American soldiers, wounded 73 others, and one was taken prisoner. There were many more Somali casualties. Some of the American bodies were dragged through the streets—a spectacle broadcast on television news programs.[164] In response, U.S. forces were withdrawn from Somalia and later conflicts were approached with fewer soldiers on the ground. Rwanda In April 1994, genocide broke out in Rwanda. Intelligence reports indicate that Clinton was aware a "final solution to eliminate all Tutsis" was underway, long before the administration publicly used the word "genocide".[165][166][167] Fearing a reprisal of the events in Somalia the previous year, Clinton chose not to intervene.[168] President Clinton has referred to the failure of the U.S. government to intervene in the genocide as one of his main foreign policy failings, saying "I don't think we could have ended the violence, but I think we could have cut it down. And I regret it."[169] Bosnia and Herzegovina In 1995, U.S. and NATO aircraft bombed Bosnian Serb targets to halt attacks on U.N. safe zones and pressure them into a peace accord that would end the Bosnian war. Clinton deployed U.S. peacekeepers to Bosnia in late 1995, to uphold the subsequent Dayton Agreement. Irish peace talks In 1992, before his presidency, Clinton proposed sending a peace envoy to Northern Ireland, but this was dropped to avoid tensions with the UK government. In 1994 Clinton angered London by granting a visa to Gerry Adams, leader of Sinn Féin, the IRA's political arm. In November 1995, Clinton became the first U.S. President to visit Northern Ireland, seeing both the divided communities of Belfast and later famously handshaking Adams, 14 months into an IRA ceasefire during the Troubles.[170] Despite unionist criticism, Clinton used this as a way to negotiate an end to the violent conflict with London, Dublin, the paramilitaries and the other groups. Clinton went on to play a key role in the peace talks, which eventually led to the Good Friday Agreement in 1998.[171] Clinton plays the saxophone presented to him by Russian president Boris Yeltsin at a private dinner in Russia, January 13, 1994 Iran In February 1996, the Clinton administration agreed to pay Iran US$131.8 million (equivalent to $214.86 million in 2019) in settlement to discontinue a case brought by Iran in 1989 against the U.S. in the International Court of Justice after the shooting down of Iran Air Flight 655 by the U.S. Navy guided missile cruiser.[172] Osama bin Laden Capturing Osama bin Laden had been an objective of the U.S. government during the presidency of Bill Clinton (and continued to be until bin Laden's death in 2011).[173] Despite claims by Mansoor Ijaz and Sudanese officials that the Sudanese government had offered to arrest and extradite bin Laden, and that U.S. authorities rejected each offer,[174] the 9/11 Commission Report stated that "we have not found any reliable evidence to support the Sudanese claim".[175] In response to a 1996 State Department warning about bin Laden[176] and the 1998 bombings of U.S. embassies in East Africa by al-Qaeda (which killed 224 people, including 12 Americans), Clinton ordered several military missions to capture or kill bin Laden, all of which were unsuccessful. In August 1998, Clinton ordered cruise missile strikes on terrorist targets in Afghanistan and Sudan, targeting the Al-Shifa pharmaceutical factory in Sudan, which was suspected of assisting bin Laden in making chemical weapons, and bin Laden's terrorist training camps in Afghanistan.[177] Kosovo Clinton greets Air Force personnel at Spangdahlem Air Base, May 5, 1999. In the midst of a brutal crackdown on ethnic Albanian separatists in the province of Kosovo by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Clinton authorized the use of U.S. Armed Forces in a NATO bombing campaign against Yugoslavia in 1999, named Operation Allied Force.[178] The stated reasoning behind the intervention was to stop the ethnic cleansing (and what the Clinton administration labeled genocide)[179][180] of Albanians by Yugoslav anti-guerilla military units. General Wesley Clark was Supreme Allied Commander of NATO and oversaw the mission. With United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244, the bombing campaign ended on June 10, 1999. The resolution placed Kosovo under UN administration and authorized a peacekeeping force to be deployed to the region.[181] NATO announced its soldiers all survived combat,[182] though two died in an Apache helicopter crash.[183] Journalists in the popular press criticized genocide statements by the Clinton administration as false and greatly exaggerated.[184][185] Prior to the bombing campaign on March 24, 1999, common estimates showed that the number of civilians killed in the over year long conflict in Kosovo had approximately been 1,800, of which were primarily Albanians but also Serbs and that there was no evidence of genocide or ethnic cleansing.[186][187] In a post-war inquiry, the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe noted "the patterns of the expulsions and the vast increase in lootings, killings, rape, kidnappings and pillage once the NATO air war began on March 24".[188] In 2001, the U.N.-supervised Supreme Court of Kosovo ruled that genocide (the intent to destroy a people) did not take place, but recognized "a systematic campaign of terror, including murders, rapes, arsons and severe maltreatments" with the intention being the forceful departure of the Albanian population.[189] The term "ethnic cleansing" was used as an alternative to "genocide" to denote not just ethnically motivated murder but also displacement, though critics charge there is little difference.[190] Slobodan Milošević, the president of Yugoslavia at the time of the atrocities, was eventually brought to trial before the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in the Hague on charges including crimes against humanity and war crimes for his role in the war.[191] He died in 2006, before the completion of the trial.[191][192] Iraq In Clinton's 1998 State of the Union Address, he warned Congress that Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein was building an arsenal of chemical, biological and nuclear weapons: Saddam Hussein has spent the better part of this decade, and much of his nation's wealth, not on providing for the Iraqi people, but on developing nuclear, chemical and biological weapons and the missiles to deliver them. The United Nations weapons inspectors have done a truly remarkable job, finding and destroying more of Iraq's arsenal than was destroyed during the entire gulf war. Now, Saddam Hussein wants to stop them from completing their mission. I know I speak for everyone in this chamber, Republicans and Democrats, when I say to Saddam Hussein, "You cannot defy the will of the world", and when I say to him, "You have used weapons of mass destruction before; we are determined to deny you the capacity to use them again.[193] Play media Israeli prime minister Ehud Barak, President Clinton and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat at Camp David, July 2000 Seeking to weaken Hussein's grip on power, Clinton signed the Iraq Liberation Act of 1998 into law on October 31, 1998, which instituted a policy of "regime change" against Iraq, though it explicitly stated it did not provide for direct intervention on the part of American military forces.[194][195] The administration then launched a four-day bombing campaign named Operation Desert Fox, lasting from December 16 to 19, 1998. At the end of this operation Clinton announced that "So long as Saddam remains in power, he will remain a threat to his people, his region, and the world. With our allies, we must pursue a strategy to contain him and to constrain his weapons of mass destruction program, while working toward the day Iraq has a government willing to live at peace with its people and with its neighbors."[196] American and British aircraft in the Iraq no-fly zones attacked hostile Iraqi air defenses 166 times in 1999 and 78 times in 2000.[197][198] Vietnam Clinton's November 2000 visit to Vietnam was the first by a U.S. president since the end of the Vietnam War.[199] On October 10, 2000, Clinton signed into law the U.S.–China Relations Act of 2000, which granted permanent normal trade relations (PNTR) trade status to People's Republic of China.[200] The president asserted that free trade would gradually open China to democratic reform.[201] Clinton also oversaw a boom of the U.S. economy. Under Clinton, the United States had a projected federal budget surplus for the first time since 1969.[202] China See also: Chinagate Clinton and Chinese president Jiang Zemin holding a joint press conference at the White House, October 29, 1997 Relations were damaged for a time by the U.S. bombing of the Chinese embassy in Belgrade in May 1999. President Clinton later apologized for the bombing, stating it was accidental.[203] The U.S.–China Relations Act of 2000 granted China permanent normal trade relations (NTR) status (previously called most favoured nation (MFN)) when China becomes a full member of the World Trade Organization (WTO), ending annual review and approval of NTR. The Act was signed into law on October 10, 2000 by Clinton.[204][205][206] President Clinton in 2000 pushed Congress to approve the U.S.-China trade agreement and China's accession to the WTO, saying that more trade with China would advance America's economic interests: "Economically, this agreement is the equivalent of a one-way street. It requires China to open its markets—with a fifth of the world's population, potentially the biggest markets in the world—to both our products and services in unprecedented new ways," said Clinton.[207] U.S. manufacturing jobs have decreased by almost five million since 2000.[208] Since the entry of China into the WTO in 2001, the decline in manufacturing jobs has accelerated.[209][210] Israeli-Palestinian conflict After initial successes such as the Oslo Accords of the early 1990s, which also led to the Israel–Jordan peace treaty in 1994 and the Wye River Memorandum in October 1998, Clinton attempted an effort to end the Israeli–Palestinian conflict. He brought Israeli prime minister Ehud Barak and Palestinian Authority chairman Yasser Arafat together at Camp David for the Camp David Summit in July 2000, which lasted 14 days.[52] Following the failures of the peace talks, Clinton said Arafat had "missed the opportunity" to facilitate a "just and lasting peace". In his autobiography, Clinton blames Arafat for the collapse of the summit.[4][211] Following another attempt in December 2000 at Bolling Air Force Base, in which the president offered the Clinton Parameters, the situation broke down completely after the end of the Taba Summit and with the start of the Second Intifada.[52] Judicial appointments Main articles: Bill Clinton Supreme Court candidates and List of federal judges appointed by Bill Clinton Ruth Bader Ginsburg accepting her nomination to the Supreme Court from President Clinton, 1993 Clinton appointed two justices to the Supreme Court: Ruth Bader Ginsburg in 1993[212] and Stephen Breyer in 1994.[213] Along with his two Supreme Court appointments, Clinton appointed 66 judges to the United States courts of appeals and 305 judges to the United States district courts. His 373 judicial appointments are the second most in American history behind those of Ronald Reagan. Clinton also experienced a number of judicial appointment controversies, as 69 nominees to federal judgeships did not receive a vote in the Republican-controlled Senate Judiciary Committee. In all, 84 percent of his nominees were confirmed.[214] Sonia Sotomayor was one of the judges who Clinton appointed to the Court of Appeals. She was nominated by Clinton in 1997, to the Second Circuit. Sotomayor was confirmed in 1998, following a delay of more than a year that was caused by Republican opposition.[215][216] Clinton was the first president in history to appoint more women and minority judges than white male judges to the federal courts.[217] In his eight years in office, 11.6% of Clinton's court of appeals nominees and 17.4% of his district court nominees were black; 32.8% of his court of appeals nominees and 28.5% of his district court nominees were women.[217] Clinton appointed the first African American judges to the Fourth Circuit (Roger Gregory) and the Seventh Circuit (Ann Claire Williams).[217] Clinton also appointed the nation's first openly gay or lesbian federal judge when he named Deborah Batts to the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. Batts was confirmed by the Senate in a voice vote in 1994.[218] Public opinion Clinton's approval ratings throughout his presidential career (Roper Center) Throughout Clinton's first term, his job approval rating fluctuated in the 40s and 50s. In his second term, his rating consistently ranged from the high-50s to the high-60s.[219] After his impeachment proceedings in 1998 and 1999, Clinton's rating reached its highest point.[220] According to a CBS News/New York Times poll, Clinton left office with an approval rating of 68 percent, which matched those of Ronald Reagan and Franklin D. Roosevelt as the highest ratings for departing presidents in the modern era.[221] Clinton's average Gallup poll approval rating for his last quarter in office was 61%, the highest final quarter rating any president has received for fifty years.[222] Forty-seven percent of the respondents identified themselves as being Clinton supporters.[222] As he was leaving office, a CNN/USA Today/Gallup poll revealed that 45 percent of Americans said they would miss him; 55 percent thought he "would have something worthwhile to contribute and should remain active in public life"; 68 percent thought he would be remembered more for his "involvement in personal scandal" than for "his accomplishments"; and 58 percent answered "No" to the question "Do you generally think Bill Clinton is honest and trustworthy?"[222] The same percentage said he would be remembered as either "outstanding" or "above average" as a president, while 22 percent said he would be remembered as "below average" or "poor".[222] ABC News characterized public consensus on Clinton as, "You can't trust him, he's got weak morals and ethics—and he's done a heck of a good job."[223] Public opinion of Bill Clinton (Gallup)[224] In May 2006, a CNN poll comparing Clinton's job performance with that of his successor, George W. Bush, found that a strong majority of respondents said Clinton outperformed Bush in six different areas questioned.[225] Gallup polls in 2007 and 2011 showed that Clinton was regarded by 13 percent of Americans as the greatest president in U.S. history.[226][227] In 2014, 18 percent of respondents in a Quinnipiac University Polling Institute poll of American voters regarded Clinton as the best president since World War II, making him the third most popular among postwar presidents, behind John F. Kennedy and Ronald Reagan.[228] The same poll showed that just 3% of American voters regarded Clinton as the worst president since World War II.[228] A 2015 poll by The Washington Post asked 162 scholars of the American Political Science Association to rank all the U.S. presidents in order of greatness. According to their findings, Clinton ranked eighth overall, with a rating of 70 percent.[229] Public image Main article: Public image of Bill Clinton Clinton addressing the British parliament on November 29, 1995 As the first baby boomer president, Clinton was the first chief executive since Calvin Coolidge who was not alive during World War II.[230] Authors Martin Walker and Bob Woodward stated that Clinton's innovative use of sound bite-ready dialogue, personal charisma, and public perception-oriented campaigning were a major factor in his high public approval ratings.[231][232] When Clinton played the saxophone on The Arsenio Hall Show, he was described by some religious conservatives as "the MTV president".[233] Opponents sometimes referred to him as "Slick Willie", a nickname which was first applied to him in 1980 by Pine Bluff Commercial journalist Paul Greenberg;[234] Greenberg believed that Clinton was abandoning the progressive policies of previous Arkansas Governors such as Winthrop Rockefeller, Dale Bumpers and David Pryor.[234] The claim "Slick Willie" would last throughout his presidency.[235] Standing at a height of 6 ft 2 in (1.88 m), Clinton is tied with four others as the fifth-tallest president in the nation's history.[236][237] His folksy manner led him to be nicknamed Bubba, especially in the South.[238] Since 2000, he has frequently been referred to as "The Big Dog" or "Big Dog".[239][240] His prominent role in campaigning for President Obama during the 2012 presidential election and his widely publicized speech at the 2012 Democratic National Convention, where he officially nominated Obama and criticized Republican nominee Mitt Romney and Republican policies in detail, earned him the nickname "Explainer-in-Chief".[241][242] Clinton at a Democratic "Get out the vote" rally in Los Angeles, California, on November 2, 2000 Clinton drew strong support from the African American community and insisted that the improvement of race relations would be a major theme of his presidency.[243] In 1998, Nobel laureate Toni Morrison called Clinton "the first Black president", saying, "Clinton displays almost every trope of blackness: single-parent household, born poor, working-class, saxophone-playing, McDonald's-and-junk-food-loving boy from Arkansas".[244] Morrison noted that Clinton's sex life was scrutinized more than his career accomplishments, and she compared this to the stereotyping and double standards that, she said, blacks typically endure.[244] Many viewed this comparison as unfair and disparaging both to Clinton and to the African-American community at large.[245] Clinton, a Baptist,[246] has been open about his faith.[247] The state funeral of George H. W. Bush in December 2018 Shortly after Clinton took office, Richard Mellon Scaife, a conservative newspaper owner, began to underwrite investigations into Clinton's past, reportedly with the hope of discovering a scandal which would cost him his presidency.[248] Leading the Arkansas Project, Scaife and other associates sought to find sources in Clinton's home state of Arkansas who would be able to reveal hidden misconduct of the president.[248] Clinton was a friend of billionaire financier Jeffrey Epstein.[249] Sexual misconduct allegations Main article: Bill Clinton sexual misconduct allegations Clinton and Monica Lewinsky on February 28, 1997 Several women have publicly accused Bill Clinton of sexual misconduct, including rape, harassment, and sexual assault. Additionally, some commentators have characterized Clinton's sexual relationship with former White House intern Monica Lewinsky as predatory or non-consensual, despite the fact that Lewinsky called the relationship consensual at the time, because of the vast power differential between a 22-year old intern and the president of the United States. These allegations have been revisited and lent more credence in 2018, in light of the #MeToo movement, with many commentators and Democratic leaders now saying Clinton should have been compelled to resign after the Lewinsky affair.[250][251][252] In 1994, Paula Jones initiated a sexual harassment lawsuit against Clinton, claiming he had made unwanted advances towards her in 1991; Clinton denied the allegations. In April 1998, the case was initially dismissed by Judge Susan Webber Wright on the grounds that it lacked legal merit.[253] Jones appealed Webber Wright's ruling, and her suit gained traction following Clinton's admission to having an affair with Monica Lewinsky in August 1998.[254] In 1998, lawyers for Paula Jones released court documents that alleged a pattern of sexual harassment by Clinton when he was Governor of Arkansas. Robert S. Bennett, Clinton's main lawyer for the case, called the filing "a pack of lies" and "an organized campaign to smear the President of the United States" funded by Clinton's political enemies.[255] Clinton later agreed to an out-of-court settlement and paid Jones $850,000.[256] Bennett said the president made the settlement only so he could end the lawsuit for good and move on with his life.[257] During the deposition for the Jones lawsuit, which was held at the White House,[258] Clinton denied having sexual relations with Monica Lewinsky—a denial that became the basis for an impeachment charge of perjury.[259] In 1998, Kathleen Willey alleged that Clinton had groped her in a hallway in 1993. An independent counsel determined Willey gave "false information" to the FBI, inconsistent with sworn testimony related to the Jones allegation.[260] On March 19, 1998, Julie Hiatt Steele, a friend of Willey, released an affidavit, accusing the former White House aide of asking her to lie to corroborate Ms. Willey's account of being sexually groped by Clinton in the Oval Office.[261] An attempt by Kenneth Starr to prosecute Steele for making false statements and obstructing justice ended in a mistrial and Starr declined to seek a retrial after Steele sought an investigation against the former Independent Counsel for prosecutorial misconduct.[262] Linda Tripp's grand jury testimony also differed from Willey's claims regarding inappropriate sexual advances.[263] Also in 1998, Juanita Broaddrick alleged that Clinton had raped her in the spring of 1978, although she said she did not remember the exact date.[264] To support her charge, Broaddrick notes that she told multiple witnesses in 1978 she had been raped by Clinton, something these witnesses also state in interviews to the press.[265] Broaddrick had earlier filed an affidavit denying any "unwelcome sexual advances" and later repeated the denial in a sworn deposition.[264] In a 1998 NBC interview wherein she detailed the alleged rape, Broaddrick said she had denied (under oath) being raped only to avoid testifying about the ordeal publicly.[264] The Lewinsky scandal has had an enduring impact on Clinton's legacy, beyond his impeachment in 1998.[266] In the wake of the #MeToo movement (which shed light on the widespread prevalence of sexual assault and harassment, especially in the workplace), various commentators and Democratic political leaders, as well as Lewinsky herself, have revisited their view that the Lewinsky affair was consensual, and instead characterized it as an abuse of power or harassment, in light of the power differential between a president and a 22-year old intern. In 2018, Clinton was asked in several interviews about whether he should have resigned, and he said he had made the right decision in not resigning.[267] During the 2018 Congressional elections, no Democratic candidate for office asked Clinton to campaign with him or her, a change that The New York Times attributed to the revised understanding of the Lewinsky scandal.[266] Clinton boarded the private plane of registered sex offender Jeffrey Epstein between 12-26+ times.[268][269] Flight records indicate that underage girls and young women, such as Chauntae Davies, who were told to do whatever Epstein asks, were present on the plane the majority of the times Clinton boarded the plane.[270][271][272] According to FOX News, Epstein has claimed he co-founded the Clinton Foundation.[273] Clinton has denied knowing anything about Jeffrey Epstein's sexual abuses.[274][275] Post-presidency (2001–present) Main article: Post-presidency of Bill Clinton Clinton greets a Hurricane Katrina evacuee, September 5, 2005. In the background, second from the right, is then-Senator Barack Obama. Bill Clinton has continued to be active in public life since leaving office in 2001, giving speeches, fundraising, and founding charitable organizations,[276] and has spoken in prime time at every Democratic National Convention.[277] Activities until 2008 campaign In 2002, Clinton warned that pre-emptive military action against Iraq would have unwelcome consequences,[278][279] and later claimed to have opposed the Iraq War from the start (though some dispute this).[280] In 2005, Clinton criticized the Bush administration for its handling of emissions control, while speaking at the United Nations Climate Change conference in Montreal.[281] The William J. Clinton Presidential Center and Park in Little Rock, Arkansas, was dedicated in 2004.[282] Clinton released a best-selling autobiography, My Life, in 2004.[283] In 2007, he released Giving: How Each of Us Can Change the World, which also became a New York Times Best Seller and garnered positive reviews.[284] Former president George H. W. Bush and Clinton in the White House Library, January 2005 In the aftermath of the 2004 Asian tsunami, U.N. secretary-general Kofi Annan appointed Clinton to head a relief effort.[285] After Hurricane Katrina, Clinton joined with fellow former president George H. W. Bush to establish the Bush-Clinton Tsunami Fund in January 2005, and the Bush-Clinton Katrina Fund in October of that year.[286] As part of the tsunami effort, these two ex-presidents appeared in a Super Bowl XXXIX pre-game show,[287] and traveled to the affected areas.[288] They also spoke together at the funeral of Boris Yeltsin in April 2007.[289] Based on his philanthropic worldview,[290] Clinton created the William J. Clinton Foundation to address issues of global importance. This foundation includes the Clinton Foundation HIV and AIDS Initiative (CHAI), which strives to combat that disease, and has worked with the Australian government toward that end. The Clinton Global Initiative (CGI), begun by the Clinton Foundation in 2005, attempts to address world problems such as global public health, poverty alleviation and religious and ethnic conflict.[291] In 2005, Clinton announced through his foundation an agreement with manufacturers to stop selling sugared drinks in schools.[292] Clinton's foundation joined with the Large Cities Climate Leadership Group in 2006 to improve cooperation among those cities, and he met with foreign leaders to promote this initiative.[293] The foundation has received donations from a number of governments all over the world, including Asia and the Middle East.[294] In 2008, Foundation director Inder Singh announced deals to reduce the price of anti-malaria drugs by 30 percent in developing nations.[295] Clinton also spoke in favor of California Proposition 87 on alternative energy, which was voted down.[296] 2008 presidential election Clinton speaking at the 2008 Democratic National Convention During the 2008 Democratic presidential primary campaign, Clinton vigorously advocated on behalf of his wife, Hillary. Through speaking engagements and fundraisers, he was able to raise $10 million toward her campaign.[297] Some worried that as an ex-president, he was too active on the trail, too negative to Clinton rival Barack Obama, and alienating his supporters at home and abroad.[298] Many were especially critical of him following his remarks in the South Carolina primary, which Obama won. Later in the 2008 primaries, there was some infighting between Bill and Hillary's staffs, especially in Pennsylvania.[299] Considering Bill's remarks, many thought he could not rally Hillary supporters behind Obama after Obama won the primary.[300] Such remarks lead to apprehension that the party would be split to the detriment of Obama's election. Fears were allayed August 27, 2008, when Clinton enthusiastically endorsed Obama at the 2008 Democratic National Convention, saying all his experience as president assures him that Obama is "ready to lead".[301] After Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign was over, Bill Clinton continued to raise funds to help pay off her campaign debt.[302][303] After the 2008 election Clinton with then-President Barack Obama and Senior Advisor Valerie Jarrett in July 2010 Clinton and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New York City on September 29, 2014 In 2009, Clinton travelled to North Korea on behalf of two American journalists imprisoned there. Euna Lee and Laura Ling had been imprisoned for illegally entering the country from China.[304] Jimmy Carter had made a similar visit in 1994.[304] After Clinton met with North Korean leader Kim Jong-il, Kim issued a pardon.[305][306] Since then, Clinton has been assigned a number of other diplomatic missions. He was named United Nations Special Envoy to Haiti in 2009 following a series of hurricanes which caused $1 billion in damages.[307] Clinton organized a conference with the Inter-American Development Bank, where a new industrial park was discussed in an effort to "build back better".[308] In response to the 2010 Haiti earthquake, U.S. president Barack Obama announced that Clinton and George W. Bush would coordinate efforts to raise funds for Haiti's recovery.[309] Funds began pouring into Haiti, which led to funding becoming available for Caracol Industrial Park in a part of the country unaffected by the earthquake. While Hillary Clinton was in South Korea, she and Cheryl Mills worked to convince SAE-A, a large apparel subcontractor, to invest in Haiti despite the company's deep concerns about plans to raise the minimum wage. In the summer of 2010, the South Korean company signed a contract at the U.S. State Department, ensuring that the new industrial park would have a key tenant.[308] In 2010, Clinton announced support of, and delivered the keynote address for, the inauguration of NTR, Ireland's first environmental foundation.[310][311] At the 2012 Democratic National Convention, Clinton gave a widely praised speech nominating Barack Obama.[312] 2016 presidential election Clinton campaigning at an election rally for his wife Hillary who was running for President of the United States, 2016 Clinton speaking at the 2016 Democratic National Convention During the 2016 presidential election, Clinton again encouraged voters to support Hillary, including a campaign stop in Wilmington, North Carolina.[313] In a series of tweets, then-President-elect Donald Trump criticized his ability to get people out to vote.[314] After the 2016 election On September 7, 2017, Clinton partnered with former presidents Jimmy Carter, George H. W. Bush, George W. Bush, and Barack Obama to work with One America Appeal to help the victims of Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma in the Gulf Coast and Texas communities.[315] Post-presidential health concerns In September 2004, Clinton underwent quadruple bypass surgery.[316] In March 2005, he again underwent surgery, this time for a partially collapsed lung.[317] On February 11, 2010, he was rushed to NewYork–Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan after complaining of chest pains, and he had two coronary stents implanted in his heart.[316][318] After this procedure, Clinton adopted the plant-based whole foods (vegan) diet, which had been recommended by doctors Dean Ornish and Caldwell Esselstyn.[319] Wealth The Clintons incurred several million dollars in legal bills during his presidency, which were paid off four years after he left office.[320] Bill and Hillary Clinton have each earned millions of dollars from book publishing.[321] In 2016, Forbes reported Bill and Hillary Clinton made about $240 million in the 15 years from January 2001, to December 2015, (mostly from paid speeches, business consulting and book-writing).[322] Also in 2016, CNN reported the Clintons combined to receive more than $153 million in paid speeches from 2001 until spring 2015.[323] In May 2015, The Hill reported that Bill and Hillary Clinton have made more than $25 million in speaking fees since the start of 2014, and that Hillary Clinton also made $5 million or more from her book, Hard Choices, during the same time period.[324] In July 2014, The Wall Street Journal reported that at the end of 2012, the Clintons were worth between $5 million and $25.5 million, and that in 2012 (the last year they were required to disclose the information) the Clintons made between $16 and $17 million, mostly from speaking fees earned by the former president.[325] Clinton earned more than $104 million from paid speeches between 2001 and 2012.[326] In June 2014, ABC News and The Washington Post reported that Bill Clinton has made more than $100 million giving paid speeches since leaving public office, and in 2008, The New York Times reported that the Clintons' income tax returns[327] show they made $109 million in the eight years from January 1, 2000, to December 31, 2007, including almost $92 million from his speaking and book-writing.[321][328][329][330] Bill Clinton has given dozens of paid speeches each year since leaving office in 2001, mostly to corporations and philanthropic groups in North America and Europe; he often earned $100,000 to $300,000 per speech.[323][331][332][333] Russian investment bank with ties to the Kremlin paid Bill Clinton $500,000 for a speech in Moscow.[334][335] Hillary Clinton said she and Bill came out of the White House financially "broke" and in debt, especially due to large legal fees incurred during their years in the White House. "We had no money when we got there, and we struggled to, you know, piece together the resources for mortgages, for houses, for Chelsea's education." She added, "Bill has worked really hard ... we had to pay off all our debts ... he had to make double the money because of, obviously, taxes; and then pay off the debts, and get us houses, and take care of family members."[329] Honors and recognition Main article: List of honors and awards received by Bill Clinton Various colleges and universities have awarded Clinton honorary degrees, including Doctorate of Law degrees[336][337] and Doctor of Humane Letters degrees.[338] He is an honorary fellow of University College, Oxford, which he attended as a Rhodes Scholar, although he did not complete his studies there.[339][340] Schools have been named for Clinton,[341][342][343] and statues have been built to pay him homage.[344][345] U.S. states where he has been honored include Missouri,[346] Arkansas,[347] Kentucky,[348] and New York.[349] He was presented with the Medal for Distinguished Public Service by Secretary of Defense William Cohen in 2001.[350] The Clinton Presidential Center was opened in Little Rock, Arkansas, in his honor on December 5, 2001.[351] He has been honored in various other ways, in countries that include the Czech Republic,[352] Papua New Guinea,[353] Germany,[354] and Kosovo.[344] The Republic of Kosovo, in gratitude for his help during the Kosovo War, renamed a major street in the capital city of Pristina as Bill Clinton Boulevard and added a monumental Clinton statue.[355][356][357] Clinton was selected as Time's "Man of the Year" in 1992,[358] and again in 1998, along with Ken Starr.[359] From a poll conducted of the American people in December 1999, Clinton was among eighteen included in Gallup's List of Widely Admired People of the 20th century.[360] He was honored with a Grammy Award for Best Spoken Word Album for Children, a J. William Fulbright Prize for International Understanding,[361] a TED Prize (named for the confluence of technology, entertainment and design),[362] and was named as an Honorary GLAAD Media Award recipient for his work as an advocate for the LGBT community.[363] In 2011, President Michel Martelly of Haiti awarded Clinton with the National Order of Honour and Merit to the rank of Grand Cross "for his various initiatives in Haiti and especially his high contribution to the reconstruction of the country after the earthquake of January 12, 2010". Clinton declared at the ceremony that "in the United States of America, I really don't believe former American presidents need awards anymore, but I am very honored by this one, I love Haiti, and I believe in its promise".[364] U.S. president Barack Obama awarded Clinton the Presidential Medal of Freedom on November 20, 2013.[365] Secretary of Defense Cohen presents President Clinton the DoD Medal for Distinguished Public Service. Bil Clinton statue in Ballybunion, erected to commemorate his 1998 golfing visit Bill Clinton statue in Pristina, the capital of Kosovo Electoral history Year Office District Democratic Republican Other 1974 Arkansas 3rd congressional district Arkansas Bill Clinton 48.17% John Paul Hammerschmidt 51.83% 1976 Arkansas Attorney General Arkansas Bill Clinton Unopposed 1978 Governor of Arkansas Arkansas Bill Clinton 63% Lynn Lowe 37% 1980 Governor of Arkansas Arkansas Bill Clinton 48% Frank White 52% 1982 Governor of Arkansas Arkansas Bill Clinton 55% Frank White 45% 1984 Governor of Arkansas Arkansas Bill Clinton 63% Woody Freeman 37% 1986 Governor of Arkansas Arkansas Bill Clinton 64% Frank White 36% 1990 Governor of Arkansas Arkansas Bill Clinton 57% Sheffield Nelson 42% 1992 President of the United States United States of America Bill Clinton 43% George H. W. Bush 37% Ross Perot (I) 19% 1996 President of the United States United States of America Bill Clinton 49% Bob Dole 41% Ross Perot (Reform) 8% Authored books Putting People First: How We Can All Change America. New York: Three Rivers Press. September 12, 1992. ISBN 978-0-8129-2193-9. Between Hope and History. New York: Times Books. 1996. ISBN 978-0-8129-2913-3. My Life (1st ed.). New York: Vintage Books. 2004. ISBN 978-1-4000-3003-3. Giving: How Each of Us Can Change the World (1st ed.). New York: Knopf. 2007. ISBN 978-0-307-26674-3. Back to Work (book) (1st ed.). New York: Knopf. 2011. ISBN 978-0-307-95975-1. The President Is Missing (1st ed.). Knopf. 2018. ISBN 978-0-316-41269-8. Recordings Bill Clinton is one of the narrators on a 2003 recording of Sergei Prokofiev's Peter and the Wolf, on Pentatone, together with Mikhail Gorbachev and Sophia Loren. See also Clinton family Clinton School of Public Service Gun control policy of the Clinton Administration Historical rankings of Presidents of the United States List of Governors of Arkansas List of Presidents of the United States List of Presidents of the United States by previous experience References ^ "William J. Clinton Biography and Interview". American Academy of Achievement. ^ Fandos, Nicholas; Shear, Michael D. (December 18, 2019). "Trump Impeached for Abuse of Power and Obstruction of Congress". The New York Times. Retrieved December 19, 2019. ^ "Directory of Irish Genealogy: American Presidents with Irish Ancestors". Homepage.eircom.net. March 23, 2004. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o Clinton, Bill (2004). My Life. Random House. ISBN 1-4000-3003-X. ^ a b "Biography of William J. Clinton". The White House. Archived from the original on July 22, 2011. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ Andrews, Edmund L. (June 21, 1993). "Clinton Reported to Have A Brother He Never Met". The New York Times. ^ Chafe, William H. (2012). Bill and Hillary: The Politics of the Personal. New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux. p. 11. ISBN 978-0-8090-9465-3. ^ Landres, J. Shawn, ed. (1992). Bill Clinton: The Inside Story. New York: S.P.I. Books. pp. 5–6. ISBN 978-1-5617-1177-2. ^ Takiff, Michael (2010). A Complicated Man: The Life of Bill Clinton as Told by Those who Know Him. New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press. p. 4. ISBN 978-0-3001-2130-8. ^ Flanagan, Sylvia P., ed. (September 8, 1997). "First Black Food Stamp Chief has Ties to President Clinton". Jet. Chicago: John N. Johnson. p. 10. ^ Gormley, Ken (2010). The Death of American Virtue: Clinton vs. Starr. New York: Crown Publishers. pp. 16–17. ISBN 978-0-307-40944-7. ^ "Oprah Talks to Bill Clinton". O, The Oprah Magazine. August 2004. Retrieved December 18, 2011. ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l Maraniss, David (1996). First in His Class: A Biography of Bill Clinton. Touchstone. ISBN 0-684-81890-6. ^ Soni, Jimmy (June 25, 2013). "10 Things You Definitely Didn't Know About Bill Clinton". The Huffington Post. ^ Maraniss, David (1996). First in His Class: A Biography of Bill Clinton. Touchstone. p. 43. ^ "It All Began in a Place Called Hope (Archived whitehouse.gov Article)". The White House. Archived from the original on July 19, 2011. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ Robert E. Levin (1992). Bill Clinton: The Inside Story. SP Books. pp. xxiv–xxv. ISBN 978-1-56171-177-2. ^ "About Leadership". APO.org. Archived from the original on January 1, 2013. Retrieved April 7, 2013. ^ DeMolay – Hall Of Fame » William Clinton, quote: "Clinton was initiated into Hot Springs Chapter in Hot Springs, Arkansas, in 1961, where he served as Master Councilor. He received the Chevalier in 1964, and the Legion of Honor in 1979. Clinton was inducted into the DeMolay Hall of Fame on May 1, 1988."[unreliable source?] ^ "Prominent Members". Kappa Kappa Psi. Archived from the original on July 16, 2011. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ a b c Hoffman, Matthew (October 11, 1992). "The Bill Clinton we knew at Oxford: Apart from smoking dope (and not inhaling), what else did he learn over here? College friends share their memories with Matthew Hoffman". The Independent. ^ a b Dowd, Maureen (June 9, 1994). "Oxford Journal; Whereas, He Is an Old Boy, If a Young Chief, Honor Him". The New York Times. Retrieved July 17, 2009. ^ Hitchens, Christopher (December 4, 2010). "Chris or Christopher?". Hitch-22: A Memoir. London: Atlantic books. pp. 106–107. ISBN 978-1-84354-922-2. ^ Stanley, Alessandra (November 22, 1992). "Most Likely to Succeed". The New York Times. ^ Cain, Nick & Growden, Greg (2006). "21: Ten Peculiar Facts about Rugby". Rugby Union for Dummies (2 ed.). Chichester, England: John Wiley and Sons. p. 297. ISBN 978-0-470-03537-5. ^ Eyal, Jonathan (June 8, 1994). "Doctor without a thesis: Bill Clinton gets an Oxford degree today, but Jonathan Eyal's verdict on his term's work is: a disaster". The Independent. ^ Neil A. Hamilton (2005). Presidents: A Biographical Dictionary. Infobase Publishing. p. 366. ISBN 978-1-4381-0816-2. ^ Steven M. Gillon (2008). The Pact: Bill Clinton, Newt Gingrich, and the Rivalry that Defined a Generation. Oxford University Press, USA. p. 21. ISBN 978-0-19-532278-1. ^ Clinton, Bill (February 13, 1992). "The 1992 Campaign; A Letter By Clinton On His Draft Deferment: 'A War I Opposed And Despised'". The New York Times. The Associated Press. Retrieved July 30, 2019. ^ Lauter, David (February 13, 1992). "Clinton Releases '69 Letter on ROTC and Draft Status". Los Angeles Times. Los Angeles. ^ Morris, Roger (April 25, 1999). Partners in Power: The Clintons and Their America. Regnery Publishing. p. 100. ISBN 978-0-89526-302-5. ^ "Clinton's Draft Deferrment". CNN. 1997. Retrieved June 19, 2014. ^ "Bill Clinton's Draft Letter". Frontline. PBS. November 23, 1991. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ Frammolino, Ralph (April 6, 1992). "ROTC Officer Unaware of Draft Notice: Clinton: The man whose action kept the future governor in school says he was not told of 1969 induction letter. Draft board insists none was sent". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved January 6, 2013. ^ Public Broadcasting System, Frontline: Interview with James Carville, 2000. ^ a b "Hillary Rodham Clinton". The White House. Archived from the original on July 24, 2011. Retrieved August 26, 2011. ^ Gerstein, Josh (November 26, 2007). "The Clintons' Berkeley Summer of Love". The New York Sun. Retrieved May 9, 2009. ^ Gerstein, Josh (November 26, 2007). "Hillary Clinton's Radical Summer". The New York Sun. ^ Medley, Jasmine. "William Jefferson Clinton Presidential Center and the Clinton School of Public Service". National Association of State Judicial Educators. Retrieved November 22, 2016. ^ Slater, Wayne (December 16, 2007). "Texas stumping in '72 helped shape Clinton's campaign". Dallas Morning News. Retrieved November 22, 2016. ^ Felsenthal, Carol (May 7, 2008). "George McGovern and Bill Clinton: the State of the Friendship". The Huffington Post. Retrieved November 22, 2016. ^ a b "Bill Clinton Political Career". CNN. 1997. Archived from the original on September 20, 2002. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ "Bill Clinton (1946–)". Encyclopedia of Arkansas. Retrieved September 15, 2018. ^ Cohen, Adam (December 12, 2007). "Bill and Hillary Clinton's Pitch in Iowa: 'I Love the '90s'". The New York Times. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ R. Emmett Tyrrell Jr. (1996). Boy Clinton: The Political Biography. Eagle Publishing. p. 236. ISBN 978-0-89526-439-8. ^ Kelly, Michael (November 27, 1992). "Little Rock Hopes Clinton Presidency Will Put Its Dogpatch Image to Rest". The New York Times. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ Jonathan W. Nicholsen. "Bill Clinton Timeline". Timeline Help. Archived from the original on October 13, 2011. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ a b Pendleton, Scott (July 21, 1992). "Governor Gets High Marks for Public Education Reforms". The Christian Science Monitor. ^ a b c d e f Klein, Joe (2002). The Natural: The Misunderstood Presidency of Bill Clinton. Doubleday. ISBN 0-7679-1412-0. ^ "Bill Clinton, New Democrat". DLC. July 25, 2004. Archived from the original on March 9, 2012. Retrieved August 30, 2010. ^ Blumenthal, Sidney (2003). The Clinton Wars (1st ed.). Farrar, Straus and Giroux. ISBN 0-374-12502-3. ^ a b c d e f g Harris, John F. (2006). The Survivor: Bill Clinton in the White House (1st ed.). Random House Trade Paperbacks. ISBN 0-375-76084-9. ^ a b George Stephanopoulos, All Too Human: A Political Education, 1999, ISBN 978-0-316-92919-6 ^ Nguyen, Alexander (July 14, 2000). "Bill Clinton's Death Penalty Waffle—and Why It's Good News for Execution's Foes". The American Prospect. Archived from the original on December 5, 2010. Retrieved August 30, 2010. In his early days, Clinton opposed the death penalty. And while he and his wife Hillary Rodham Clinton were both teaching at the University of Arkansas Law School, she wrote an appellate brief that helped save a mentally retarded man from execution. "Clinton was against the death penalty," says Arkansas attorney Jeff Rosenzweig, who, like Clinton, grew up in Hot Springs, Arkansas. "He told me so." ^ "Reinstatement of the Death Penalty". ^ "Clemency". Death Penalty Information Center. Archived from the original on February 21, 2010. Retrieved February 24, 2010. ^ "How Gary Hart's Sex Scandal Betrayed His Character". ^ David Maraniss, First in His Class: A Biography of Bill Clinton (New York: Random House, 1996; ISBN 978-0-684-81890-0). ^ Church, George J. (January 27, 1992). "Cover: Is Bill Clinton For Real?". Time. Retrieved February 22, 2020. ^ Kornacki, Steve (July 30, 2012). "When Bill Clinton died onstage". Salon. Retrieved February 22, 2020. ^ a b c d e Woodward, Bob (2005). The Choice: How Bill Clinton Won. Simon & Schuster. ISBN 0-7432-8514-X. ^ Safire, William (December 6, 1993). "Essay; Looking Beyond Peace". The New York Times. Retrieved October 29, 2008. ^ Duffy, Michael; Barrett, Laurence I.; Blackman, Ann; Carney, James (November 29, 1993). "Secrets Of Success". Time. Retrieved February 22, 2020. ^ Woodward, Bob (September 15, 2007). "Greenspan Is Critical Of Bush in Memoir". The Washington Post. Retrieved January 9, 2014. ^ Steve Schifferes (January 15, 2001). "Bill Clinton's economic legacy". BBC News. Retrieved January 9, 2014. ^ Baker, Peter (February 3, 2008). "Bill Clinton's Legacy". The Washington Post. Retrieved July 13, 2010. ^ "Bill Clinton". History.com. Retrieved February 22, 2020. ^ Stevenson, Richard (February 8, 2000). "The Battle of the Decades; Reaganomics vs. Clintonomics Is a Central Issue in 2000". The New York Times. Retrieved March 15, 2011. ^ "Revenues, Outlays, Deficits, Surpluses, and Debt Held by the Public, 1968 to 2007, in Billions of Dollars". Congressional Budget Office. September 2008. Archived from the original (PDF) on February 8, 2013. Retrieved July 13, 2010. ^ "The Budget and Deficit Under Clinton". FactCheck.org. February 3, 2008. Archived from the original on July 28, 2011. Retrieved August 17, 2011. ^ "Historical Debt Outstanding—Annual 1950–1999". TreasuryDirect. ^ "Historical Debt Outstanding—Annual 2000–2015". TreasuryDirect. ^ "Fiscal Year 2013 Historical Tables" (PDF). United States Government Publishing Office. ^ Herstek, Amy (January 11, 2001). "Clinton thanks New Hampshire for making him the 'Comeback Kid'". CNN. Retrieved February 22, 2020. ^ Ifill, Gwen (March 17, 1992). "Hillary Clinton Defends Her Conduct in Law Firm". The New York Times. Retrieved March 28, 2008. ^ MacGillis, Alec; Kornblut, Anne E. (December 21, 2007). "Hillary Clinton Embraces Her Husband's Legacy". The Washington Post. p. A1. Retrieved March 28, 2008. ^ Applebome, Peter (January 25, 1992). "Arkansas Execution Raises Questions on Governor's Politics". The New York Times. Retrieved March 28, 2008. ^ "How the Presidents Stack Up: A look at U.S. presidents' job-approval ratings". The Wall Street Journal. 2006. Archived from the original on October 25, 2008. Retrieved October 30, 2008. ^ Le Beau, Bryan. "The Political Mobilization of the New Christian Right". Creighton University. Retrieved December 1, 2006. ^ Walker, Martin (January 6, 1992). "Tough love child of Kennedy". The Guardian. London. Retrieved October 12, 2007. ^ a b c "On this day (November 4) in 1992: Clinton beats Bush to the White House". BBC News. November 4, 1992. Archived from the original on December 18, 2008. Retrieved October 31, 2008. ^ https://thinkprogress.org/the-future-of-gay-parents-on-television-378cc67a76b5/ ^ https://actupny.org/campaign96/rafsky-clinton.html ^ "Party Division in the Senate, 1789–present". United States Senate. Archived from the original on July 18, 2011. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ "House History". United States House of Representatives. Archived from the original on October 26, 2011. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ Clinton, Bill (January 20, 1993). "First Inaugural Address of William J. Clinton; January 20, 1993". Yale Law School. Retrieved February 22, 2020. ^ "U.S. Senate Roll Call Votes 103rd Congress—1st Session". United States Senate. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ "New Nationwide Poll Shows Strong Support for Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA)" (PDF). Protect Family Leave. Archived from the original (PDF) on December 27, 2011. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ Sharon L. Camp. "The Politics of U.S. Population Assistance". In Laurie Ann Mazur (ed.). Beyond the Numbers: A Reader on Population, Consumption and the Environment. p. 130. ^ Amy Sullivan, The Party Faithful: How and Why Democrats Are Closing the God Gap (Simon & Schuster: 2008), pp. 91–92. ^ Sullivan, The Party Faithful, pp. 236–237. ^ Richard L. Burke (February 15, 1993). "White House Hones All-Out Campaign to Sell Sacrifice". The New York Times. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ "The Clinton Years: Chronology". Frontline. Archived from the original on May 2, 2010. Retrieved June 13, 2010. ^ Woodward, Bob (2000). Maestro. New York: Simon & Schuster. p. 116. ^ Clinton, Hillary (2003). Living History. Simon & Schuster. p. 172. ISBN 0-7432-2224-5. ^ Gormley, Ken (2010). The Death of American Virtue: Clinton vs. Starr. New York: Crown Publishers. pp. 70–71. ISBN 978-0-307-40944-7. ^ Clinton, Bill (August 3, 1993). "Presidential Press Conference in Nevada". Archived from the original on September 27, 2007. ^ Clinton, Bill (January 25, 1994). "William J. Clinton: Address Before a Joint Session of the Congress on the State of the Union". Presidency.ucsb.edu. Retrieved February 22, 2020. ^ Broder, Jonathan; Waas, Murray (March 17, 1998). "The Road To Hale". Salon. Archived from the original on June 16, 2006. Retrieved August 25, 2007. ^ Karl, Jonathan (March 10, 1998). "Reporter Apologizes For Clinton Sex Article". CNN. Archived from the original on June 14, 2008. ^ Feder, Jody (2010). "Don't Ask, Don't Tell": A Legal Analysis. DIANE Publishing. ISBN 978-1-4379-2208-0. ^ Mixner, David (November 25, 2009). Stranger Among Friends. Random House Publishing Group. pp. 495–497. ISBN 978-0-307-42958-2. ^ Cloud, John (November 1996). "Stranger Among Friends—book reviews". Washington Monthly. Archived from the original on August 26, 2011. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ "President seeks better implementation of 'don't ask, don't tell'". CNN. December 11, 1999. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ "Obama certifies end of military's gay ban". NBC News. Reuters. July 22, 2011. Retrieved September 7, 2011. ^ a b Don C. Livingston; Kenneth A. Wink (1997). "The Passage of the North American Free Trade Agreement in the U.S. House of Representatives: Presidential Leadership or Presidential Luck?". Presidential Studies Quarterly. 27. ^ "HR 3355—Omnibus Crime Bill". votesmart.org. Retrieved September 12, 2015. ^ "Bill Clinton". 4to40.com. February 25, 2015. Retrieved February 22, 2020. ^ Jeffrey A. Roth and Christopher S. Koper, "Impacts of the 1994 Assault Weapons Ban: 1994–96". U.S. Department of Justice/National Institute of Justice, Research in Brief (Mar. 1999); available at https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/173405.pdf ^ "Welcome to the White House". Archived from the original on June 6, 2007. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ "The Clinton White House Web Site". Archived from the original on July 22, 2011. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ "Welcome to the White House". Archived from the original on July 23, 2011. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ Longley, Robert. "The Clinton White House Web Site: Part 2: Preserving the Clinton White House Web Site". Archived from the original on July 22, 2011. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ Longley, Robert. "The Clinton White House Web Site: Part 1: Perhaps the most important Web site in American history". About.com. Archived from the original on January 18, 2017. Retrieved June 6, 2007. ^ Hulsey, Byron (November 27, 1997). "The Altered Terrain of American Politics (Review of Do Elections Matter?)". Retrieved October 29, 2008. ^ https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11362952 ^ Ray, Robert (March 16, 2000). "Final Report of the Independent Counsel ... of the Investigation In Re: Anthony Marceca" (PDF). United States Government Printing Office. Retrieved August 30, 2011. [permanent dead link] ^ "Independent counsel: No evidence to warrant prosecution against first lady in 'filegate'". CNN. July 28, 2000. Archived from the original on May 29, 2010. Retrieved April 26, 2010. ^ "PUBLIC LAW 104–199—DEFENSE OF MARRIAGE ACT". United States Government Printing Office. ^ Rich, Frank (February 26, 2012). "Bill Clinton's shifting justifications for signing the Defense of Marriage Act". New York. ^ a b Geidner, Chris (September 29, 2011). "Becoming Law". Metro Weekly. ^ "Bill Clinton's Justifications for Signing DOMA—New York Magazine". New York. Retrieved February 22, 2020. ^ "Unfinished Business: The Defense of Marriage Act". Editorial. The New York Times. July 2, 2011. ^ Socarides, Richard (June 26, 2013). "How The Court Ruled on DOMA and Prop. 8". The New Yorker. Retrieved February 22, 2020. ^ "ClintonGore Accomplishments: Gay and Lesbian Americans". Clinton2.nara.gov. Archived from the original on March 19, 2013. Retrieved September 12, 2013. ^ a b Socarides, Richard. "Why Bill Clinton Signed the Defense of Marriage Act". The New Yorker. Retrieved February 22, 2020. ^ Volsky, Igor. (August 5, 1995) Clinton Issued Order Letting Gays Get Security Clearances 16 Years Ago Today Archived March 26, 2014, at the Wayback Machine ^ "Clinton Grants Gay Workers Job Protection". The New York Times. May 29, 1998. Retrieved September 12, 2013. ^ "2000.12.01: (Fact Sheet) Clinton Administration Record on HIV/AIDS". Archive.hhs.gov. Archived from the original on September 30, 2013. Retrieved September 12, 2013. ^ "S. 2056 (104th): Employment Nondiscrimination Act of 1996 (On Passage of the Bill)". Govtrack.us. Retrieved February 22, 2020. ^ "Bill Clinton Backs Same-Sex Marriage". The Nation. July 14, 2009. Retrieved February 22, 2020. ^ Clinton, Bill (March 7, 2013). "It's time to overturn DOMA". The Washington Post. Retrieved September 12, 2013. ^ "GLAAD honours Bill Clinton". 3 News NZ. April 22, 2013. ^ Gromov, Gregory. "History of the Internet and World Wide Web". Archived from the original on July 20, 2011. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ a b "China Was Bill Clinton's Russia". The Wall Street Journal. March 3, 2017. ^ "Not All Foreign-Influence Scandals Are Created Equal". National Review. July 16, 2017. ^ "Findings Link Clinton Allies to Chinese Intelligence". The Washington Post. February 10, 1998. ^ Woodward, Bob; Duffy, Brian (February 13, 1997). "Chinese Embassy Role In Contributions Probed". The Washington Post. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ Louis Freedberg (June 2, 1995). "New Limits In Works on Immigration / Powerful commission focusing on families of legal entrants". San Francisco Chronicle. Retrieved February 22, 2020. ^ Jones Jr., Plummer Alston (2004). Still Struggling for Equality: American public library services with minorities. Libraries Unlimited. p. 154. ISBN 1-59158-243-1. ^ Pear, Robert (June 8, 1995). "Clinton Embraces a Proposal To Cut Immigration by a Third". The New York Times. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ a b Discovery TV. Clinton Assassination Attempt—Secret Service Secrets. Retrieved March 29, 2015 – via YouTube. ^ a b c d e Gormley, Ken (February 1, 2011). The Death of American Virtue: Clinton vs. Starr. Crown Publishing Group. p. 800. ISBN 978-0-307-40945-4. ^ N.A. "Bombs Found As Manila Readies For APEC Summit". The Seattle Times. ^ a b N.A. "Explosives Found Near Summit Site". Los Angeles Times. Associated Press. ^ Jones, Charles O. (2005). The Presidency in a Separated System. The Brookings Institution. p. 318. ^ Shogren, Elizabeth (October 4, 1997). "Clinton to Get Hearing Aids for Both Ears". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved February 22, 2020. ^ "Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999". Federal Reserve History. Retrieved February 22, 2020. ^ Miller, Lorraine C. (December 19, 1998). "Final vote results for roll call 543". Office of the Clerk. Archived from the original on January 6, 2010. Retrieved April 20, 2010. ^ Miller, Lorraine C. (December 19, 1998). "Final vote results for roll call 545". Office of the Clerk. Archived from the original on March 2, 2010. Retrieved April 20, 2010. ^ "President Clinton impeached". This Day in History | December 19. HISTORY. Retrieved December 12, 2019. ^ "What have presidents been impeached for? These were the articles of impeachment for Andrew Johnson, Richard Nixon and Bill Clinton". CBS News. Retrieved December 12, 2019. ^ "Time Line". The Washington Post. September 13, 1998. p. A32. Retrieved January 20, 2007. ^ The Starr Report: The Findings of Independent Counsel Kenneth Starr on President Clinton and the Lewinsky Affair. 1998. ISBN 1-891620-24-X. ^ Froomkin, Dan (August 26, 1999). "Case Closed". The Washington Post. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ a b c Senate LIS (February 12, 1999). "U.S. Senate Roll Call Votes 106th Congress—1st Session: vote number 17—Guilty or Not Guilty (Art I, Articles of Impeachment v. President W. J. Clinton)". United States Senate. Retrieved February 22, 2020. ^ "Clinton impeached". BBC News. December 19, 1998. Archived from the original on December 11, 2008. Retrieved October 29, 2008. ^ "The Senate Acquits President Clinton". The Washington Post. February 13, 1999. Retrieved February 22, 2020. ^ Neal v. Clinton, Civ. No. 2000-5677, Agreed Order of Discipline (Ark. Cir. Ct. 2001) ("Mr. Clinton admits and acknowledges ... that his discovery responses interfered with the conduct of the Jones case by causing the court and counsel for the parties to expend unnecessary time, effort, and resources"). ^ "Bill cops a plea". The Wall Street Journal. January 22, 2001. ^ "Clinton Pardon's List". The Washington Post. Associated Press. January 20, 2001. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ "Clinton pardons: Cast of characters". BBC News. February 22, 2001. Retrieved September 11, 2011. ^ Curl, Joseph (August 30, 2011). "Clintons hit over Libby criticism". The Washington Times. ^ "The people killed them. Chopped them up. I consider myself lucky". The Guardian. October 9, 1993. ^ Carrol, Rory (April 1, 2004). "US chose to ignore Rwandan genocide". The Guardian. London. Archived from the original on December 28, 2017. Retrieved February 13, 2018. ^ Bureau of Intelligence and Research (April 26, 1994). "Secretary [of State Warren Christopher]'s Morning Summary" (PDF). ^ Central Intelligence Agency (April 23, 1994). "National Intelligence Daily" (PDF). ^ "Ambush in Mogadishu: Transcript". PBS. Archived from the original on May 6, 2009. Retrieved October 27, 2009. ^ Chozick, Amy (September 4, 2012). "In Africa, Bill Clinton Toils for a Charitable Legacy". The New York Times. Archived from the original on October 22, 2012. Retrieved October 18, 2012. ^ "1995: Clinton kindles hope in Northern Ireland". November 30, 1995. Retrieved December 12, 2019. ^ "Clinton: His role in Northern Ireland". December 11, 2000. Retrieved December 12, 2019. ^ "America's Flight 17". Slate. July 23, 2014. ^ "Bill Clinton: I got closer to killing bin Laden". CNN. September 24, 2006. Retrieved September 11, 2011. ^ Ijaz, Mansoor (December 5, 2001). "Clinton Let Bin Laden Slip Away and Metastisize". Los Angeles Times. Retrieved February 22, 2020. ^ "Staff Statement No. 5" (PDF). 9/11 Commission. Retrieved February 22, 2020. ^ Lichtblau, Eric (August 17, 2005). "State Dept. Says It Warned About bin Laden in 1996". The New York Times. Retrieved February 22, 2020. ^ Pike, John. "BGM-109 Tomahawk—Smart Weapons". Globalsecurity.org. Retrieved August 17, 2011. ^ Clines, Francis X. (March 25, 1999). "NATO Opens Broad Barrage Against Serbs as Clinton Denounces 'Brutal Repression'". The New York Times. ^ Cohen, William (April 7, 1999). "Secretary Cohen's Press Conference at NATO Headquarters". Retrieved February 22, 2020. ^ Clinton, Bill (August 30, 2011). "Press Conference by the President". Archived from the original on October 6, 2006. ^ "Resolution 1244 (1999)". NATO. June 10, 1999. Archived from the original on June 29, 2011. Retrieved August 17, 2011. ^ Roberts, Adam (April 10, 2003). "The Impact of the Laws of War in Contemporary Conflicts (PDF)" (PDF). Princeton University. Retrieved February 22, 2020. ^ "Two die in Apache crash". BBC News. May 5, 1999. Retrieved August 17, 2011. ^ Pilger, John (September 4, 2000). "US and British officials told us that at least 100,000 were murdered in Kosovo. A year later, fewer than 3,000 bodies have been found". New Statesman. ^ Pearl, Daniel; Block, Robert (December 31, 1999). "Despite Tales, the War in Kosovo Was Savage, but Wasn't Genocide". The Wall Street Journal. p. A1. ^ Layne, Christopher; Schwarz, Benjamin (March 26, 2000). "Was It A Mistake?". The Washington Post. ^ Cockburn, Alexander (October 29, 1999). "Where's the Evidence of Genocide of Kosovar Albanians?". Los Angeles Times. ^ Erlanger, Steven (February 22, 2020). "Monitors' Reports Provide Chronicle of Kosovo Terror". The New York Times. ^ "Kosovo assault 'was not genocide'". BBC News. September 7, 2001. Retrieved August 17, 2011. ^ George J. Andreopoulos. "Ethnic Cleansing". Encyclopædia Britannica. Retrieved February 22, 2020. ^ a b "The charges against Milosevic". BBC News. March 11, 2006. Retrieved August 17, 2011. ^ "Milosevic's war crimes trial a 4-year marathon". CNN. March 11, 2006. Retrieved July 30, 2019. ^ Clinton, Bill (January 27, 1998). "Text of President Clinton's 1998 State of the Union Address". The Washington Post (Press release). Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ "Iraq Liberation Act of 1998, H.R.4655, One Hundred Fifth Congress of United States of America at Second Session". Library of Congress. Archived from the original on February 18, 2007. Retrieved February 18, 2007. ^ "H.R.4655—Iraq Liberation Act of 1998". ^ "Address to the Nation on Completion of Military Strikes in Iraq". Presidency.ucsb.edu. December 19, 1998. Retrieved February 22, 2020. ^ Pike, John. "Operation Southern Watch". Archived from the original on October 9, 2007. Retrieved July 22, 2013. ^ Pike, John. "Operation Northern Watch". Archived from the original on October 9, 2007. Retrieved July 22, 2013. ^ "Clinton's Vietnam visit". BBC News. November 16, 2000. Retrieved September 11, 2011. ^ Smith, Matt (October 10, 2000). "Clinton signs China trade bill". CNN. Archived from the original on July 14, 2014. Retrieved July 3, 2014. ^ Peter B. Levy (2002). Encyclopedia of the Clinton Presidency. Greenwood Publishing Group. p. 57. ISBN 0-313-31294-X. ^ "Historical Budget Data" (PDF). Congressional Budget Office. January 26, 2006. Archived from the original (PDF) on January 1, 2007. Retrieved January 20, 2007. ^ "Chinese Embassy Bombing In Belgrade: Compensation Issues". Congressional Research Service. ^ "Waking the Sleeping Dragon". Slate. September 28, 2016. ^ "Was Letting China Into the WTO a Mistake?". Foreign Affairs. April 2, 2018. ^ "Normalizing Trade Relations With China Was a Mistake". The Atlantic. June 8, 2018. ^ "Text of Clinton's Speech on China Trade Bill", Federal News Service, March 9, 2000 ^ Guiltford, Gwynn (May 3, 2018). "The epic mistake about manufacturing that's cost Americans millions of jobs". Quartz. ^ Autor, David H.; Dorn, David; Hanson, Gordon H. (2016). "The China Shock: Learning from Labor Market Adjustment to Large Changes in Trade" (PDF). Annual Review of Economics. 8 (1): 205–240. doi:10.1146/annurev-economics-080315-015041. ^ Bartash, Jeffry (May 14, 2018). "China really is to blame for millions of lost U.S. manufacturing jobs, new study finds". Market Watch. ^ Shyovitz, David. "Camp David 2000". Jewish Virtual Library. Archived from the original on July 19, 2011. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ "Biographies of Current Justices of the Supreme Court". Supreme Court. Archived from the original on July 21, 2011. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ "Appointment and swearing in of Justice Breyer, 1994". Law.onecle.com. September 30, 1994. Retrieved February 22, 2020. ^ "Biographical Directory of Federal Judges". Federal Judicial Center. Archived from the original on July 30, 2016. Retrieved August 29, 2011. ^ Meg Greene, Sonia Sotomayor: A Biography (ABC-CLIO, 2012), pp. 121–129. ^ "Sonia Sotomayor Fast Facts". CNN. March 8, 2013. Retrieved June 22, 2015. ^ a b c Nancy Scherer (2005). Scoring Points: Politicians, Activists, and the Lower Federal Court Appointment Process. Stanford University Press. p. 85. ^ Henry J. Reske, Appointment Breaks Barrier: First Openly Gay Federal Judge Assumes Duties, ABA Journal (December 1994), p. 27. ^ "Bill Clinton: Job Ratings". Pollingreport.com. Retrieved August 17, 2011. ^ "Clinton's approval rating up in wake of impeachment". CNN. December 20, 1998. Retrieved September 11, 2011. ^ Cosgrove-Mather, Bootie (June 7, 2004). "A Look Back at the Polls". CBS News. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ a b c d David W. Moore, Clinton Leaves Office With Mixed Public Reaction, Gallup Organization (January 12, 2001). ^ Langer, Gary (January 17, 2001). "Poll: Clinton Legacy Mixed". ABC News. Retrieved January 19, 2013. ^ "Favorability: People in the News". Gallup, Inc. Retrieved August 27, 2018. ^ "Poll: Clinton outperformed Bush". CNN. May 15, 2006. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ Lydia Saad, Lincoln Resumes Position as Americans' Top-Rated President: Reagan and Clinton lead among members of their respective parties, Gallup (February 19, 2007). ^ Frank Newport, [Americans Say Reagan Is the Greatest U.S. President: Lincoln and Clinton next on the list; Washington fifth], Gallup (February 18, 2011). ^ a b Obama Is First As Worst President Since WWII, Quinnipiac University National Poll Finds; More Voters Say Romney Would Have Been Better, Quinnipiac University (July 2, 2014). ^ Rottinghaus, Brandon; Vaughn, Justin (February 16, 2015). "New ranking of U.S. presidents puts Lincoln at No. 1, Obama at 18; Kennedy judged most overrated". The Washington Post. Retrieved March 24, 2015. ^ Sandalow, Marc (January 14, 2001). "Clinton Era Marked by Scandal, Prosperity: 1st Baby Boomer in White House Changed Notions of Presidency". San Francisco Chronicle. Archived from the original on June 11, 2008. Retrieved October 29, 2008. ^ Martin Walker, Clinton: the President they deserve, Fourth Estate 1999 ^ Bob Woodward, The choice: how Clinton won, Touchstone 1996, ISBN 0-684-81308-4 ^ Bresler, Robert J. (January 2001). "The Muddled Meaning of the 2000 Election". USA Today (Society for the Advancement of Education). Archived from the original on February 6, 2008. Retrieved January 2, 2007. ^ a b American Frontline:Stories of Bill. Retrieved May 4, 2015 ^ Mérida, Kevin (December 20, 1998). "It's Come To This: A Nickname That's Proven Hard to Slip". The Washington Post. ^ Baker, Peter (October 11, 2007). "Head and Shoulders Above the Rest". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on July 28, 2011. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ Carnahan, Ira (May 19, 2004). "Presidential Timber Tends To Be Tall". Forbes. Retrieved September 11, 2011. ^ Hurt, Charles; Campanile, Carl (June 27, 2007). "Rudy Bops Bubba". New York Post. Retrieved August 23, 2012. ^ Dowd, Maureen (October 22, 2000). "Liberties; Dare Speak His Name". The New York Times. Retrieved August 23, 2012. They're going to have to let the big dog run. ^ Rutenberg, Jim; Zernike, Kate (September 20, 2010). "Bill Clinton Stumps for Obama". The New York Times. Retrieved August 23, 2012. The Big Dog, as he is known among those in the tight world of Clinton associates ... ^ McDuffee, Allen (September 6, 2012). "Bill Clinton's DNC speech as 'explainer in chief,' 'it takes some brass,' and more [AM Briefing]". The Washington Post. Retrieved January 25, 2013. ^ Poniewozik, James (September 6, 2012). "The Morning After: Obama Turns to Bill Clinton, Explainer-in-Chief". Time. Retrieved January 25, 2013. ^ "A Conversation With President Bill Clinton on Race in America Today". Center for American Progress. July 16, 2004. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ a b Morrison, Toni (October 1998). "Clinton as the first black president". The New Yorker. Archived from the original on October 21, 2006. Retrieved December 1, 2006. ^ Coates, Ta-Nehisi (August 27, 2015). "It Was No Compliment to Call Bill Clinton 'The First Black President'". The Atlantic. Retrieved October 21, 2016. ^ Sullivan, The Party Faithful, p. 101. ^ Sullivan, The Party Faithful, p. 9. ^ a b Robert G. Kaiser; Chinoy, Ira (May 2, 1999). "Scaife: Funding Father of the Right". The Washington Post. Retrieved August 19, 2013. ^ "Jeffrey Epstein, the convicted sex offender who was friends with Donald Trump and Bill Clinton, explained". Vox. September 4, 2019. ^ Tumulty, Karen; Mettler, Katie (November 17, 2017). "Abuse allegations have revived scrutiny of Bill Clinton—and divided Democrats". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on November 19, 2017. Retrieved November 19, 2017. ^ Flanagan, Caitlin. "Bill Clinton: A Reckoning". The Atlantic. Archived from the original on November 18, 2017. Retrieved November 19, 2017. ^ Wolf, Z. Byron (November 17, 2017). "Should Democrats turn their backs on Bill Clinton?". CNN. Archived from the original on November 19, 2017. Retrieved November 19, 2017. ^ "Clinton Welcomes Jones Decision; Appeal Likely". CNN. April 2, 1998. Retrieved September 11, 2011. ^ "Text of Jones's Appeal". The Washington Post. July 31, 1998. Retrieved August 25, 2010. ^ Clines, Francis X. (March 14, 1998). "Testing of a President: The Accuser; Jones Lawyers Issue Files Alleging Clinton Pattern of Harassment of Women". The New York Times. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ "Appeals court ponders Paula Jones settlement". CNN. November 18, 1998. Retrieved September 11, 2011. ^ Baker, Peter (November 14, 1998). "Clinton Settles Paula Jones Lawsuit for $850,000". The Washington Post. Retrieved October 27, 2011. ^ "Deposition of William Jefferson Clinton, January 17, 1998". CNN. March 13, 1998. Retrieved September 11, 2011. ^ "Lewinsky scandal". The Columbia Encyclopedia, Sixth Edition. Columbia University Press. 2008. Archived from the original on June 18, 2009. Retrieved February 9, 2010. ^ "The Lives Of Kathleen Willey". CNN. March 30, 1998. Retrieved September 11, 2011. ^ John M. Broder (March 19, 1998). "Friend Accuses Willey for Plea to her to Lie". The New York Times. Retrieved February 15, 2014. ^ Levy, Peter (November 30, 2001). Encyclopedia of the Clinton Presidency. Greenwood Publishing Group. pp. 328–329. ISBN 978-0-313-31294-6. ^ "Stalking the president". Salon. January 1999. Archived from the original on January 29, 2011. Retrieved February 15, 2014. ^ a b c "Full Transcript of NBC Dateline report on Juanita Broaddrick". February 1999. Archived from the original on February 16, 2006. ^ Matthews, Dylan (January 6, 2016). "The rape allegation against Bill Clinton, explained". ^ a b Lerer, Lisa (November 2, 2018). "No One Wants to Campaign With Bill Clinton Anymore". The New York Times. ^ "Bill Clinton: I wouldn't have done anything differently with Lewinsky affair". NBC News. Retrieved June 4, 2018. ^ McDonald, Scott (July 8, 2019). "Bill Clinton says he didn't know about Jeffrey Epstein's alleged sex trafficking crimes". Newsweek. Retrieved September 16, 2019. ^ Gold, Michael (July 9, 2019). "Bill Clinton and Jeffrey Epstein: How Are They Connected?". The New York Times. Retrieved September 16, 2019. ^ Bryant, Nick (January 22, 2015). "Flight Logs Put Clinton, Dershowitz on Pedophile Billionaire's Sex Jet". Gawker. ^ Mikelionis, Lukas (July 9, 2019). "Bill Clinton 'not telling the truth' about Jeffrey Epstein, says investigative journalist who first revealed allegations in 2010". Fox News. Retrieved September 16, 2019. ^ "Chauntae Davies Describes Coming Forward As Epstein Accuser". NPR. September 2, 2019. ^ Zimmerman, Malia (July 6, 2016). "Billionaire sex offender Epstein once claimed he co-founded Clinton Foundation". Fox News. Retrieved September 16, 2019. ^ Moye, David (July 8, 2019). "Bill Clinton Denies Knowing Anything About Jeffrey Epstein's 'Terrible Crimes'". HuffPost. Retrieved September 16, 2019. ^ Arciga, Julia (July 9, 2019). "Bill Clinton: I Flew With Jeffrey Epstein but Knew 'Nothing' About 'Terrible Crimes'". The Daily Beast. ^ Gerstein, Josh (January 17, 2006). "Clinton Eligible, Once Again, To Practice Law". The New York Sun. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ Corasaniti, Nick; Williams, Josh (September 5, 2012). "Bill Clinton's Democratic Convention Speeches". The New York Times. Retrieved July 30, 2019. ^ "House Passes Resolution Authorizing Use of Force in Iraq; New Jerssy Supreme Court Hears Argument For, Against New Democrat on Ballot". CNN. October 2, 2002. Retrieved August 30, 2010. ^ Grice, Andrew (October 3, 2002). "Clinton urges caution over Iraq as Bush is granted war powers". The Independent. London. Archived from the original on August 21, 2011. Retrieved August 30, 2011. A pre-emptive action today, however well justified, may come back with unwelcome consequences in the future." As someone who had ordered military action before, he said: "I don't care how precise your bombs and your weapons are, when you set them off, innocent people will die. ^ "Bill Clinton Says He Opposed Iraq War from Start (UPDATED)". Outside The Beltway. November 28, 2007. Retrieved September 12, 2013. ^ "Last-minute climate deals reached". BBC News. December 10, 2005. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ "Clinton Library open for business". BBC News. November 18, 2004. Retrieved September 11, 2011. ^ Glaister, Dan (May 22, 2006). "Oprah Winfrey book deal tops Clinton's $12 m". The Guardian. London. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ "Best Sellers". The New York Times. September 23, 2007. Archived from the original on May 10, 2013. Retrieved September 18, 2007. ^ "Clinton to be U.N.'s envoy on tsunami relief". NBC News. Associated Press. February 1, 2005. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ "2006 Philadelphia Liberty Medal Award". Constitutioncenter.org. Retrieved August 26, 2011. ^ Maske, Mark (January 27, 2005). "Senior Bush, Clinton to Appear at Super Bowl". The Washington Post. Retrieved April 26, 2010. ^ "Bush, Clinton end tsunami visit". BBC News. February 21, 2005. Retrieved September 11, 2011. ^ "Former Presidents Bush, Clinton Represent U.S. at Boris Yeltsin's Funeral". Fox News. April 24, 2007. Archived from the original on December 8, 2007. Retrieved May 10, 2007. ^ Meacham, Jon (December 20, 2009). "Planetary Problem Solver". Newsweek. Archived from the original on August 16, 2011. Retrieved September 11, 2011. ^ "Clinton Global Initiative". Clinton Global Initiative. June 19, 2011. Archived from the original on August 7, 2011. Retrieved August 17, 2011. ^ "William J. Clinton Foundation announces agreement to reduce junk food in schools". Comcast.net. Archived from the original on May 1, 2008. Retrieved August 25, 2010. ^ "Clinton Foundation and Climate Partnership, Press Release". August 1, 2006. Archived from the original on September 27, 2007. ^ Baker, Peter; Davies, Anne (November 18, 2008). "Obama team turns scrutiny on Bill Clinton". The Age. Melbourne. Retrieved August 31, 2011. ^ Smith, Pohla (August 20, 2008). "Young man combines expertise in economics and social issues at Clinton Foundation". Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. Archived from the original on January 31, 2010. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ Indravudh, Peach (October 15, 2006). "Clinton backs Prop. 87". Daily Bruin. UCLA. Archived from the original on November 8, 2011. Retrieved August 31, 2011. ^ Yoon, Robert (July 30, 2008). "Bill Clinton 2007 speech haul tops $10 million". CNN. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ Vaughn Ververs (January 26, 2008). "Analysis: Bill Clinton's Lost Legacy". CBS News. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ Peter Baker; Jim Rutenberg (June 8, 2008). "The Long Road to a Clinton Exit". The New York Times. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ Alter, Jonathan (August 6, 2008). "A Catharsis in Denver?". Newsweek. Archived from the original on November 10, 2011. Retrieved September 11, 2011. ^ Sweet, Lynn (August 28, 2008). "Bill Clinton vouches for Obama: now 'ready to lead'". Chicago Sun-Times. Archived from the original on October 17, 2011. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ "Clinton Turns to Husband's Charity to Retire Campaign Debt". Fox News. December 24, 2008. Archived from the original on February 16, 2012. Retrieved August 31, 2011. ^ Condon, Stephanie (May 13, 2010). "Bill Clinton Raffles Himself to Pay Hillary's Campaign Debt". CBS News. Retrieved August 31, 2011. ^ a b "Bill Clinton meets N Korea leader". BBC News. August 4, 2009. Retrieved August 31, 2011. ^ "North Korea pardons US reporters". BBC News. August 4, 2009. Retrieved August 31, 2011. ^ Landler, Mark; Baker, Peter (August 5, 2009). "Bill Clinton and Journalists in Emotional Return to U.S." The New York Times. Retrieved August 30, 2011. ^ "Bill Clinton to be UN Haiti envoy". BBC News. May 19, 2009. Retrieved September 11, 2011. ^ a b Deborah Sontag (July 5, 2012). "Earthquake Relief Where Haiti Wasn't Broken". The New York Times. Retrieved August 24, 2019. ^ "Presidents Clinton, Bush lead effort to raise funds for Haiti". CNN. January 16, 2010. Retrieved August 31, 2011. ^ Oliver, Emmet (March 5, 2010). "Clinton backs NTR's environment foundation". Irish Independent. Retrieved August 31, 2011. ^ "President Bill Clinton Delivers Keynote Address". NTR Foundation. March 4, 2010. Retrieved August 31, 2011. ^ "Bill Clinton brings it for Obama". CNN. September 6, 2012. ^ "Bill Clinton Rallies for Hillary in Wilmington". WWAY News. October 26, 2016. Retrieved February 2, 2017. ^ Rebecca Shabad (December 20, 2016). "Trump goes after Bill Clinton over post-election comments". CBS News. Retrieved February 2, 2017. ^ Shelbourne, Mallory (September 10, 2017). "Former presidents fundraise for Irma disaster relief". The Hill. Retrieved September 11, 2017. ^ a b "Bill Clinton 'in good spirits' after heart procedure". BBC News. February 12, 2010. Retrieved August 31, 2011. ^ "Clinton surgery called successful". NBC News. Associated Press. March 10, 2005. Retrieved August 31, 2011. ^ Egan, Mark (February 11, 2010). "Bill Clinton in good spirits after heart procedure". Reuters. Retrieved September 11, 2011. ^ David S. Martin (August 18, 2011). "From omnivore to vegan: The dietary education of Bill Clinton". CNN. Retrieved September 17, 2012. ^ "Clintons Pay Off Legal Bills". June 14, 2005. Retrieved March 28, 2015. ^ a b McIntire, Mike (April 5, 2008). "Clintons made $109 Million in Last 8 Years". The New York Times. ^ Alexander, Dan (November 8, 2016). "How Bill And Hillary Clinton Made $240 Million In The Last 15 Years". Forbes. Retrieved July 30, 2019. ^ a b Yoon, Robert (February 6, 2016). "$153 million in Bill and Hillary Clinton speaking fees, documented". CNN. Retrieved February 7, 2016. ^ Ben Kamisar, Clintons earned more than $25 million for speeches since 2014 (May 15, 2015), The Hill ^ Mullins, Brody; Nicholas, Peter; Ballhaus, Rebecca (July 1, 2014). "The Bill and Hillary Clinton Money Machine Taps Corporate Cash". The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved July 30, 2019. ^ Epstein, Jennifer. "Clinton Family Speeches Netted as Much as $26 Million for Foundation". Bloomberg News. Retrieved May 23, 2015. ^ (linked in the NYT article) ^ Rucker, Philip; Hamburger, Tom; Becker, Alexander (June 26, 2014). "How the Clintons went from 'dead broke' to rich, with $104.9 million for ex-president's speaking fees". The Washington Post. Retrieved July 30, 2019. ^ a b Hillary Clinton Defends High-Dollar Speaking Fees (June 9, 2014), ABC News and Good Morning America ^ Bill's $500,000 Kuwait Lecture (November 17, 2008), The Daily Beast ^ Josh Gerstein, Clinton Eligible, Once Again, To Practice Law, New York Sun, January 17, 2006, downloaded from N.Y. Sun article. ^ Healy, Patrick (May 10, 2007). "Bill Clinton Ponders a Role as First Gentleman". The New York Times. Retrieved May 22, 2010. ^ Bentley, Daniel (February 24, 2007). "Forty Million Dollar Bill, Independent, 2007". The Independent. London. Archived from the original on October 15, 2007. Retrieved May 22, 2010. ^ Becker, Jo; McIntire, Mike (April 23, 2015). "Cash Flowed to Clinton Foundation Amid Russian Uranium Deal". The New York Times. ^ Campbell, Colin; Engel, Pamela (April 23, 2015). "The Clinton Foundation received millions from investors as Putin took over 20% of US uranium deposits". Yahoo! Finance. ^ "Honorary Degrees". UNC-Chapel Hill Office of Faculty Governance. 1993. Retrieved August 31, 2011. ^ "President Bill Clinton with an honorary doctorate of law". Tulane University. May 19, 2006. Archived from the original on August 8, 2011. Retrieved August 31, 2011. ^ "Clinton to address graduates, Honorary doctorate will be bestowed". RIT News, Rochester Institute of Technology. May 18, 2007. Retrieved August 31, 2011. ^ Hoffman, Matthew. "The Bill Clinton we knew at Oxford: Apart from smoking dope (and not inhaling), what else did he learn over here? College friends share their memories with Matthew Hoffman". The Independent. Retrieved October 27, 2016. ^ "www.univ.ox.ac.uk". University of Oxford. Archived from the original on March 13, 2016. ^ "Clinton Elementary". Compton Unified School District. Archived from the original on September 27, 2011. Retrieved August 31, 2010. ^ "William Jefferson Clinton Middle School". Los Angeles Unified School District. Archived from the original on July 19, 2011. Retrieved August 31, 2011. ^ "Clinton School of Public service". University of Arkansas. Archived from the original on July 20, 2011. Retrieved August 31, 2011. ^ a b "Kosovo unveils Clinton's statue". BBC News. November 1, 2009. Archived from the original on November 2, 2009. Retrieved November 2, 2009. ^ "Kosovo to honor Bill Clinton with statue". Reuters. May 23, 2007. Retrieved September 11, 2011. ^ "DeMolay Hall of Fame". DeMolay International. Archived from the original on September 5, 2010. Retrieved August 25, 2010. ^ Purdum, Todd S. (October 17, 2002). "Campaign Season; Another First for Clinton". The New York Times. Retrieved August 6, 2009. ^ "Colonels website". Honorable Order of Kentucky Colonels. Archived from the original on June 25, 2009. Retrieved December 21, 2009. ^ Dunlap, David (November 23, 2004). "Pataki Offers Peek at 9/11 Memorial Progress". The New York Times. Retrieved August 31, 2011. ^ "Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen presents the Department of Defense Medal for Distinguished Public Service to President Bill Clinton in a ceremonial farewell at Fort Myer, Va., on Jan. 5, 2001". U.S. Department of Defense. Retrieved September 1, 2011. ^ Van Natta Jr., Don (June 28, 1999). "Dinner for a Presidential Library, Contributions Welcome". The New York Times. Retrieved December 17, 2009. ^ "List of Individuals Awarded the Order of the White Lion". Old.hrad.cz. October 13, 2005. Retrieved August 6, 2009. ^ "It's now 'Chief' Bill Clinton". United Press International. December 3, 2006. Retrieved August 31, 2011. ^ "International Prize of the city of Aachen (German)". Archived from the original on February 6, 2008. ^ Nizza, Mike (May 23, 2007). "Statue Watch: Bill Clinton Edition". The New York Times. Retrieved October 8, 2012. ^ Bilefsky, Dan (December 17, 2007). "Kosovo Struggles to Forge an Identity". The New York Times. Retrieved October 8, 2012. ^ Bilefsky, Dan (December 9, 2007). "Kosovo: Forging an identity on eve of new era". The New York Times. Retrieved October 8, 2012. ^ Elizabeth P. Valk (January 4, 1993). "Bill Clinton, Man of the Year". Time. Retrieved August 31, 2011. ^ Gibbs, Nancy (December 28, 1998). "Kenneth Starr & Bill Clinton, Men of the Year". Time. Retrieved August 31, 2011. ^ The Gallup Poll 1999. Wilmington, Del.: Scholarly Resources Inc. 1999. pp. 248–249. ^ AmericaLive (October 22, 2010). "President Bill Clinton Biography". CNN. Archived from the original on October 4, 2015. ^ "2007 TED Prize winner Bill Clinton on TEDTalks". TED Blog. April 4, 2007. Archived from the original on July 28, 2011. Retrieved August 31, 2011. ^ "24th Annual GLAAD Media Awards—Los Angeles". GLAAD. Retrieved April 7, 2013. ^ Press, ed. (July 22, 2011). "Haiti—Social: Bill Clinton receives the National Order of Honor and Merit to the rank Grand Cross gold plated". Haiti Libre. Retrieved March 14, 2016. ^ Jackson, David (November 20, 2013). "Obama awards Medal of Freedom to Clinton, Oprah, others". USA Today. Retrieved November 20, 2013. Further reading Main article: Bibliography of Bill Clinton Primary sources Clinton, Bill. (with Al Gore). Science in the National Interest. Washington, D.C.: The White House, August 1994. --- (with Al Gore). The Climate Change Action Plan. Washington, D.C.: The White House, October 1993. Taylor Branch The Clinton Tapes: Wrestling History with the President. (2009) Simon & Schuster. ISBN 978-1-4165-4333-6 Official Congressional Record Impeachment Set: ... Containing the Procedures for Implementing the Articles of Impeachment and the Proceedings of the Impeachment Trial of President William Jefferson Clinton. Washington, D.C.: U.S. G.P.O., 1999. Public Papers of the Presidents of the United States, William J. Clinton. Washington, D.C.: Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration: For sale by the Supt. of Docs., U.S. G.P.O., 1994–2002. S. Daniel Abraham Peace Is Possible, foreword by Bill Clinton Popular books Peter Baker The Breach: Inside the Impeachment and Trial of William Jefferson Clinton (2000) ISBN 0-684-86813-X James Bovard Feeling Your Pain: The Explosion and Abuse of Government Power in the Clinton-Gore Years (2000) ISBN 0-312-23082-6 Joe Conason and Gene Lyons The Hunting of the President: The Ten-Year Campaign to Destroy Bill and Hillary Clinton (2003) ISBN 0-312-27319-3 Elizabeth Drew On the Edge: The Clinton Presidency (1994) ISBN 0-671-87147-1 David Gergen Eyewitness to Power: The Essence of Leadership. (2000) ISBN 0-684-82663-1 Nigel Hamilton Bill Clinton: An American Journey (2003) ISBN 0-375-50610-1 Christopher Hitchens No One Left to Lie to: The Triangulations of William Jefferson Clinton (1999) ISBN 1-85984-736-6 Michael Isikoff Uncovering Clinton: A Reporter's Story (1999) ISBN 0-609-60393-0 Mark Katz Clinton and Me: A Real-Life Political Comedy (2004) ISBN 978-0-7868-6949-7 David Maraniss The Clinton Enigma: A Four and a Half Minute Speech Reveals This President's Entire Life (1998) ISBN 0-684-86296-4 Dick Morris with Eileen McGann Because He Could (2004) ISBN 0-06-078415-6 Richard A. Posner An Affair of State: The Investigation, Impeachment, and Trial of President Clinton (1999) ISBN 0-674-00080-3 Mark J. Rozell The Clinton Scandal and the Future of American Government (2000) ISBN 0-87840-777-4 Timperlake, Edward, and William C. Triplett II Year of the Rat: How Bill Clinton Compromised U.S. Security for Chinese Cash. Washington, D.C.: Regnery Publishing, 1998. ISBN 0-89526-333-5 Michael Waldman POTUS Speaks: Finding the Words That Defined the Clinton Presidency (2000) ISBN 0-7432-0020-9 Ivory Tower Publishing Company. Achievements of the Clinton Administration: the Complete Legislative and Executive. (1995) ISBN 0-88032-748-0 Scholarly studies Campbell, Colin, and Bert A. Rockman, eds. The Clinton Legacy (Chatham House Pub, 2000) Cohen; Jeffrey E. "The Polls: Change and Stability in Public Assessments of Personal Traits, Bill Clinton, 1993–99" Presidential Studies Quarterly, Vol. 31, 2001 Cronin, Thomas E. and Michael A. Genovese; "President Clinton and Character Questions" Presidential Studies Quarterly Vol. 28, 1998 Davis; John. "The Evolution of American Grand Strategy and the War on Terrorism: Clinton and Bush Perspectives" White House Studies, Vol. 3, 2003 Dumbrell, John. "Was there a Clinton doctrine? President Clinton's foreign policy reconsidered". Diplomacy and Statecraft 13.2 (2002): 43–56. Edwards; George C. "Bill Clinton and His Crisis of Governance" Presidential Studies Quarterly, Vol. 28, 1998 Fisher; Patrick. "Clinton's Greatest Legislative Achievement? the Success of the 1993 Budget Reconciliation Bill" White House Studies, Vol. 1, 2001 Glad; Betty. "Evaluating Presidential Character" Presidential Studies Quarterly, Vol. 28, 1998 Harris, John F. The Survivor: Bill Clinton in the White House (2006). Head, Simon. The Clinton System (January 30, 2016), The New York Review of Books Hyland, William G. Clinton's World: Remaking American Foreign Policy (1999) ISBN 0-275-96396-9 Jewett, Aubrey W. and Marc D. Turetzky; "Stability and Change in President Clinton's Foreign Policy Beliefs, 1993–96" Presidential Studies Quarterly, Vol. 28, 1998 Kim, Claire Jean (2002), "Managing the Racial Breach: Clinton, Black-White Polarization, and the Race Initiative", Political Science Quarterly, 117 (1): 55–79, doi:10.2307/798094, JSTOR 798094 Laham, Nicholas, A Lost Cause: Bill Clinton's Campaign for National Health Insurance (1996) Lanoue, David J. and Craig F. Emmert; "Voting in the Glare of the Spotlight: Representatives' Votes on the Impeachment of President Clinton" Polity, Vol. 32, 1999 Levy, Peter B. Encyclopedia of the Clinton presidency (Greenwood, 2002) Maurer; Paul J. "Media Feeding Frenzies: Press Behavior during Two Clinton Scandals" Presidential Studies Quarterly, Vol. 29, 1999 Nie; Martin A. "'It's the Environment, Stupid!': Clinton and the Environment" Presidential Studies Quarterly, Vol. 27, 1997 in JSTOR O'Connor; Brendon. "Policies, Principles, and Polls: Bill Clinton's Third Way Welfare Politics 1992–1996" The Australian Journal of Politics and History, Vol. 48, 2002 Poveda; Tony G. "Clinton, Crime, and the Justice Department" Social Justice, Vol. 21, 1994 Renshon; Stanley A. The Clinton Presidency: Campaigning, Governing, and the Psychology of Leadership Westview Press, 1995 Romano, Flavio. Clinton and Blair: the political economy of the third way (Routledge, 2007) Renshon; Stanley A. "The Polls: The Public's Response to the Clinton Scandals, Part 1: Inconsistent Theories, Contradictory Evidence" Presidential Studies Quarterly, Vol. 32, 2002 Rushefsky, Mark E. and Kant Patel. Politics, Power & Policy Making: The Case of Health Care Reform in the 1990s (1998) ISBN 1-56324-956-1 Schantz, Harvey L. Politics in an Era of Divided Government: Elections and Governance in the Second Clinton Administration (2001) ISBN 0-8153-3583-0 Troy, Gill. The Age of Clinton: America in the 1990s (2015) Warshaw, Shirley Anne. The Clinton Years (Infobase Publishing, 2009) Wattenberg; Martin P. "The Democrats' Decline in the House during the Clinton Presidency: An Analysis of Partisan Swings" Presidential Studies Quarterly, Vol. 29, 1999 Wattier; Mark J. "The Clinton Factor: The Effects of Clinton's Personal Image in 2000 Presidential Primaries and in the General Election" White House Studies, Vol. 4, 2004 External links Bill Clintonat Wikipedia's sister projects Definitions from Wiktionary Media from Wikimedia Commons News from Wikinews Quotations from Wikiquote Texts from Wikisource Official Presidential Library & Museum White House biography Organizations Clinton Foundation Interviews, speeches, and statements Appearances on C-SPAN Bill Clinton at TED Full audio of a number of Clinton speeches Miller Center of Public Affairs Oral History Interview with Bill Clinton from Oral Histories of the American South, June 1974 "The Wanderer", a profile from The New Yorker, September 2006 Media coverage Bill Clinton collected news and commentary at The Guardian "Bill Clinton collected news and commentary". The New York Times. Other Bill Clinton at Curlie Extensive essays on Bill Clinton and shorter essays on each member of his cabinet and First Lady from the Miller Center of Public Affairs "Life Portrait of Bill Clinton", from C-SPAN's American Presidents: Life Portraits, December 20, 1999 Clinton an American Experience documentary Bill Clinton on IMDb Works by Bill Clinton at Project Gutenberg v t e Bill Clinton 42nd President of the United States (1993–2001) 40th and 42nd Governor of Arkansas (1979–1981, 1983–1992) Presidency 1st inauguration 2nd inauguration Economic policy AmeriCorps Health care plan North American Free Trade Agreement Balanced Budget Foreign policy International trips Clinton Doctrine Dayton Agreement Oslo I Accord Israel–Jordan peace treaty 1993 cruise missile strikes on Iraq 1996 cruise missile strikes on Iraq Operation Infinite Reach Bombing of Yugoslavia Bombing of Iraq (1998) One America Initiative Nannygate Lincoln Bedroom for contributors controversy Commerce Department trade mission controversy Clinton–Lewinsky scandal Starr Report Impeachment and trial White House Millennium Council Pardons list State of the Union addresses 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 Cabinet Federal judicial appointments Supreme Court controversies Executive Orders Presidential Proclamations Life and legacy Childhood home Early life and career Presidential Library Post-presidency Clinton Foundation Clinton School of Public Service Clinton Boulevard Clinton Bush Haiti Fund Chairman, National Constitution Center Honors and awards Public image Troopergate Sexual misconduct allegations Whitewater controversy Books Between Hope and History (1996) My Life (2004) Giving: How Each of Us Can Change the World (2007) Back to Work (2011) The President Is Missing (2018) Popular culture The War Room (1993 documentary) Primary Colors (1998 film) The Final Days (2000 short film) The Special Relationship (2010 film) Clinton (2012 film) Hillary and Clinton (2016 play) Saturday Night Live parodies of Bill Clinton Elections 1974 United States House of Representatives elections 1978 Arkansas gubernatorial election 1980 1982 1984 1986 1990 Bill Clinton 1992 presidential campaign 1992 Democratic Party presidential primaries 1996 Democratic National Convention 1992 1996 1992 United States presidential election theme song 1996 Family Hillary Rodham Clinton (wife) Chelsea Clinton (daughter) William Jefferson Blythe Jr. (father) Virginia Clinton Kelley (mother) Roger Clinton Sr. (first stepfather) Jeff Dwire (second stepfather) Roger Clinton Jr. (half-brother) Socks (cat) Buddy (dog) Whitehaven (house) ← George H. W. Bush Book Category Commons George W. Bush → Offices and distinctions Legal offices Preceded by Jim Guy Tucker Attorney General of Arkansas 1977–1979 Succeeded by Steve Clark Party political offices Preceded by David Pryor Democratic nominee for Governor of Arkansas 1978, 1980, 1982, 1984, 1986, 1990 Succeeded by Jim Guy Tucker Preceded by Michael Dukakis Chair of the Democratic Governors Association 1987–1988 Succeeded by James Blanchard Preceded by Sam Nunn Chair of the Democratic Leadership Council 1990–1991 Succeeded by John Breaux Preceded by Michael Dukakis Democratic nominee for President of the United States 1992, 1996 Succeeded by Al Gore Honorary titles Preceded by Michelle Obama Spouse of the Democratic nominee for President of the United States 2016 Succeeded by Jill Biden (presumptive) |- ! colspan="3" style="border-top: 5px solid #ccccff;" | Political offices |- style="text-align:center;" |style="width:30%;" rowspan="1"|Preceded by Joe Purcell (Acting) | style="width: 40%; text-align: center;" rowspan="1"| Governor of Arkansas 1979–1981 | style="width: 30%; text-align: center;" rowspan="1"| Succeeded by Frank D. White |- |- style="text-align:center;" |style="width:30%;" rowspan="1"|Preceded by Frank D. White | style="width: 40%; text-align: center;" rowspan="1"| Governor of Arkansas 1983–1992 | style="width: 30%; text-align: center;" rowspan="1"| Succeeded by Jim Guy Tucker |- |- style="text-align:center;" |style="width:30%;" rowspan="1"|Preceded by Lamar Alexander | style="width: 40%; text-align: center;" rowspan="1"| Chair of the National Governors Association 1986–1987 | style="width: 30%; text-align: center;" rowspan="1"| Succeeded by John H. Sununu |- |- style="text-align:center;" |style="width:30%;" rowspan="1"|Preceded by George H. W. Bush | style="width: 40%; text-align: center;" rowspan="1"| President of the United States 1993–2001 | style="width: 30%; text-align: center;" rowspan="1"| Succeeded by George W. Bush |- |- ! colspan="3" style="border-top: 5px solid #FACEFF;" | Diplomatic posts |- | style="width: 30%; text-align: center;" rowspan="1"|New office | style="width: 40%; text-align: center;" rowspan="1"| Chair of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation 1993 | style="width: 30%; text-align: center;" rowspan="1"| Succeeded by Suharto |- |- style="text-align:center;" |style="width:30%;" rowspan="1"|Preceded by Jacques Chirac | style="width: 40%; text-align: center;" rowspan="1"| Chair of the Group of Eight 1997 | style="width: 30%; text-align: center;" rowspan="1"| Succeeded by Tony Blair |- |- ! colspan="3" style="border-top: 5px solid #cfc;" | U.S. order of precedence (ceremonial) |- style="text-align:center;" |style="width:30%;" rowspan="1"|Preceded by Jimmy Carter as Former President | style="width: 40%; text-align: center;" rowspan="1"| Order of Precedence of the United States as Former President | style="width: 30%; text-align: center;" rowspan="1"| Succeeded by George W. Bush as Former President |- |} Articles related to Bill Clinton v t e Presidents of the United States George Washington (1789–1797) John Adams (1797–1801) Thomas Jefferson (1801–1809) James Madison (1809–1817) James Monroe (1817–1825) John Quincy Adams (1825–1829) Andrew Jackson (1829–1837) Martin Van Buren (1837–1841) William Henry Harrison (1841) John Tyler (1841–1845) James K. Polk (1845–1849) Zachary Taylor (1849–1850) Millard Fillmore (1850–1853) Franklin Pierce (1853–1857) James Buchanan (1857–1861) Abraham Lincoln (1861–1865) Andrew Johnson (1865–1869) Ulysses S. Grant (1869–1877) Rutherford B. Hayes (1877–1881) James A. Garfield (1881) Chester A. Arthur (1881–1885) Grover Cleveland (1885–1889) Benjamin Harrison (1889–1893) Grover Cleveland (1893–1897) William McKinley (1897–1901) Theodore Roosevelt (1901–1909) William Howard Taft (1909–1913) Woodrow Wilson (1913–1921) Warren G. Harding (1921–1923) Calvin Coolidge (1923–1929) Herbert Hoover (1929–1933) Franklin D. Roosevelt (1933–1945) Harry S. Truman (1945–1953) Dwight D. Eisenhower (1953–1961) John F. Kennedy (1961–1963) Lyndon B. Johnson (1963–1969) Richard Nixon (1969–1974) Gerald Ford (1974–1977) Jimmy Carter (1977–1981) Ronald Reagan (1981–1989) George H. W. Bush (1989–1993) Bill Clinton (1993–2001) George W. Bush (2001–2009) Barack Obama (2009–2017) Donald Trump (2017–present) Presidency timelines T. Roosevelt Wilson Harding Coolidge Hoover F. D. Roosevelt Truman Eisenhower Kennedy L. B. Johnson Nixon Ford Carter Reagan G. H. W. Bush Clinton G. W. Bush Obama Trump Book Category List v t e (1988 ←) 1992 United States presidential election (→ 1996) Democratic Party Convention Primaries Nominee Bill Clinton campaign positions VP nominee Al Gore Candidates Larry Agran Jerry Brown Tom Harkin Bob Kerrey Lyndon LaRouche campaign positions Tom Laughlin Eugene McCarthy Paul Tsongas Douglas Wilder Charles Woods Republican Party Convention Primaries Nominee George H. W. Bush VP nominee Dan Quayle Candidates Pat Buchanan David Duke Jack Fellure Isabell Masters Pat Paulsen Tennie Rogers Harold Stassen Independent Candidate Ross Perot (campaign) VP candidate James Stockdale Other independent and third party candidates Libertarian Party Convention Nominee Andre Marrou VP nominee Nancy Lord Natural Law Party Nominee John Hagelin VP nominee Mike Tompkins New Alliance Party Nominee Lenora Fulani VP nominee Maria Elizabeth Muñoz Prohibition Party Nominee Earl Dodge VP nominee George Ormsby Socialist Party USA Nominee J. Quinn Brisben VP nominee Barbara Garson Socialist Workers Party Nominee James Warren VP nominee Willie Mae Reid U.S. Taxpayers Party Convention Nominee Howard Phillips VP nominee Albion W. Knight, Jr. Workers World Party Nominee Gloria La Riva VP nominee Larry Holmes Independents and other candidates Ronald Daniels (Running mate: Asiba Tupahache) Bo Gritz Isabell Masters Other 1992 elections House Senate Gubernatorial v t e (1992 ←) 1996 United States presidential election (→ 2000) Democratic Party Convention Primaries Nominee Bill Clinton positions VP nominee Al Gore Candidates James D. Griffin Lyndon LaRouche campaign positions Pat Paulsen Republican Party Convention Primaries Nominee Bob Dole VP nominee Jack Kemp Candidates Lamar Alexander Pat Buchanan Charles E. Collins Bob Dornan Jack Fellure Arthur Fletcher Steve Forbes Phil Gramm Alan Keyes Richard Lugar Isabell Masters Jimmy McMillan Tennie Rogers Arlen Specter Morry Taylor Pete Wilson Reform Party Primaries Nominee Ross Perot VP nominee Pat Choate Candidates Richard Lamm Other Third party and independent candidates Green Party Convention Nominee Ralph Nader (campaign) VP nominee Winona LaDuke Independent Grassroots Party Nominee John Birrenbach VP nominee George McMahon Libertarian Party Convention Nominee Harry Browne VP nominee Jo Jorgensen Candidates Irwin Schiff Natural Law Party Nominee John Hagelin VP nominee Mike Tompkins Prohibition Party Nominee Earl Dodge VP nominee Rachel Bubar Kelly Socialist Party Nominee Mary Cal Hollis VP nominee Eric Chester Socialist Workers Party Nominee James Harris U.S. Taxpayers Party Nominee Howard Phillips VP nominee Herb Titus Workers World Party Nominee Monica Moorehead VP nominee Gloria La Riva Independents and other candidates Joan Jett Blakk Marsha Feinland Isabell Masters Steve Michael Dennis Peron Other 1996 elections House Senate Gubernatorial v t e United States Democratic Party Presidential tickets and National Conventions 1828 (None): Jackson/Calhoun 1832 (Baltimore): Jackson/Van Buren 1835 (Baltimore): Van Buren/R. Johnson 1840 (Baltimore): Van Buren/None 1844 (Baltimore): Polk/Dallas 1848 (Baltimore): Cass/Butler 1852 (Baltimore): Pierce/King 1856 (Cincinnati): Buchanan/Breckinridge 1860 (Baltimore): Douglas/H. Johnson (Breckinridge/Lane, SD) 1864 (Chicago): McClellan/Pendleton 1868 (New York): Seymour/Blair 1872 (Baltimore): Greeley/Brown 1876 (Saint Louis): Tilden/Hendricks 1880 (Cincinnati): Hancock/English 1884 (Chicago): Cleveland/Hendricks 1888 (Saint Louis): Cleveland/Thurman 1892 (Chicago): Cleveland/Stevenson I 1896 (Chicago): W. Bryan/Sewall 1900 (Kansas City): W. Bryan/Stevenson I 1904 (Saint Louis): Parker/H. Davis 1908 (Denver): W. Bryan/Kern 1912 (Baltimore): Wilson/Marshall 1916 (Saint Louis): Wilson/Marshall 1920 (San Francisco): Cox/Roosevelt 1924 (New York): J. Davis/C. Bryan 1928 (Houston): Smith/Robinson 1932 (Chicago): Roosevelt/Garner 1936 (Philadelphia): Roosevelt/Garner 1940 (Chicago): Roosevelt/Wallace 1944 (Chicago): Roosevelt/Truman 1948 (Philadelphia): Truman/Barkley 1952 (Chicago): Stevenson II/Sparkman 1956 (Chicago): Stevenson II/Kefauver 1960 (Los Angeles): Kennedy/L. Johnson 1964 (Atlantic City): L. Johnson/Humphrey 1968 (Chicago): Humphrey/Muskie 1972 (Miami Beach): McGovern/(Eagleton, Shriver) 1976 (New York): Carter/Mondale 1980 (New York): Carter/Mondale 1984 (San Francisco): Mondale/Ferraro 1988 (Atlanta): Dukakis/Bentsen 1992 (New York): B. Clinton/Gore 1996 (Chicago): B. Clinton/Gore 2000 (Los Angeles): Gore/Lieberman 2004 (Boston): Kerry/Edwards 2008 (Denver): Obama/Biden 2012 (Charlotte): Obama/Biden 2016 (Philadelphia): H. Clinton/Kaine 2020 (Milwaukee): Biden/TBD (presumptive) U.S. House leaders A. Stevenson (1827–1834) Bell (1834–1835) Polk (1835–1839) J. W. Jones (1843–1845) Davis (1845–1847) Cobb (1849–1851) Boyd (1851–1855) G. W. Jones (1855–1857) Orr (1857–1859) Houston (1859–1861) Niblack/Randall (1869–1871) Niblack (1873–1875) Kerr (1875–1876) Randall (1876–1881) Carlisle (1883–1889) Holman (1889–1891) Crisp (1891–1895) D. B. Culberson (1895–1897) Richardson (1897–1903) Williams (1903–1909) Clark (1909–1921) Kitchin (1921–1923) Garrett (1923–1929) Garner (1929–1933) Rainey (1933–1934) Byrns (1935–1936) Bankhead (1936–1940) Rayburn (1940–1961) McCormack (1962–1971) Albert (1971–1977) O'Neill (1977–1987) Wright (1987–1989) Foley (1989–1995) Gephardt (1995–2003) Pelosi (2003–present) U.S. Senate leaders J. W. Stevenson (1873–1877) Wallace (1877–1881) Pendleton (1881–1885) Beck (1885–1890) Gorman (1890–1898) Turpie (1898–1899) J. K. Jones (1899–1903) Gorman (1903–1906) Blackburn (1906–1907) C. A. Culberson (1907–1909) Money (1909–1911) Martin (1911–1913) Kern (1913–1917) Martin (1917–1919) Hitchcock (1919–1920) Underwood (1920–1923) Robinson (1923–1937) Barkley (1937–1949) Lucas (1949–1951) McFarland (1951–1953) Johnson (1953–1961) Mansfield (1961–1977) Byrd (1977–1989) Mitchell (1989–1995) Daschle (1995–2005) Reid (2005–2017) Schumer (2017–present) Chairs of the DNC Hallett McLane Smalley Belmont Schell Hewitt Barnum Brice Harrity Jones Taggart Mack McCombs McCormick Cummings White Hull Shaver Raskob Farley Flynn Walker Hannegan McGrath Boyle McKinney Mitchell Butler Jackson Bailey O'Brien Harris O'Brien Westwood Strauss Curtis White Manatt Kirk Brown Wilhelm DeLee Dodd/Fowler Romer/Grossman Rendell/Andrew McAuliffe Dean Kaine Wasserman Schultz Perez State and Territorial Parties Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming American Samoa District of Columbia Guam Northern Mariana Islands Puerto Rico Virgin Islands Democrats Abroad Affiliated groups Congress Senate Caucus Policy Committee Steering and Outreach Committee United States Senate Democratic Conference Secretary House Caucus Fundraising Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee Democratic Governors Association Democratic Legislative Campaign Committee Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee National Conference of Democratic Mayors Sectional College Democrats of America Democrats Abroad National Federation of Democratic Women Stonewall Democrats Stonewall Young Democrats Young Democrats of America High School Democrats of America Related articles History Primaries Debates Party factions Superdelegate 2005 chairmanship election 2017 chairmanship election 2006 House Caucus leadership election 2018 House Caucus leadership election Weekly Democratic Address v t e Order of precedence in the United States* The President The Vice President The Governor (of the state in which the event is held) The Speaker of the House The Chief Justice Former President Carter Former President Clinton Former President Bush Former President Obama Ambassadors of the United States The Secretary of State The Associate Justices Retired Justice O'Connor Retired Justice Kennedy Retired Justice Souter The President's Cabinet The President Pro Tempore of the Senate The Senate The Governors of the States (by order of statehood) Former Vice President Mondale Former Vice President Quayle Former Vice President Gore Former Vice President Cheney Former Vice President Biden The House of Representatives *not including acting officeholders, visiting dignitaries, auxiliary executive and military personnel and most diplomats v t e Cabinet of President Bill Clinton (1993–2001) Cabinet Secretary of State Warren M. Christopher (1993–1997) Madeleine Albright (1997–2001) Secretary of the Treasury Lloyd Bentsen (1993–94) Robert Rubin (1995–1999) Larry Summers (1999–2001) Secretary of Defense Les Aspin (1993–94) William J. Perry (1994–1997) William S. Cohen (1997–2001) Attorney General Janet Reno (1993–2001) Secretary of the Interior Bruce Babbitt (1993–2001) Secretary of Agriculture Mike Espy (1993–94) Dan Glickman (1995–2001) Secretary of Commerce Ron Brown (1993–1996) Mickey Kantor (1996–97) William M. Daley (1997–2000) Norman Mineta (2000–01) Secretary of Labor Robert Reich (1993–1997) Alexis M. Herman (1997–2001) Secretary of Health and Human Services Donna Shalala (1993–2001) Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Henry G. Cisneros (1993–1997) Andrew M. Cuomo (1997–2001) Secretary of Transportation Federico Peña (1993–1997) Rodney Slater (1997–2001) Secretary of Energy Hazel O'Leary (1993–1997) Federico Peña (1997–98) Bill Richardson (1998–2001) Secretary of Education Richard W. Riley (1993–2001) Secretary of Veterans Affairs Jesse Brown (1993–97) Togo West (1998–2000) * Acting secretary Cabinet-level Vice President Al Gore (1993–2001) White House Chief of Staff Mack McLarty (1993–94) Leon Panetta (1994–1997) Erskine Bowles (1997–98) John Podesta (1998–2001) Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency Carol M. Browner (1993–2001) Ambassador to the United Nations Madeleine Albright (1993–1997) Bill Richardson (1997–98) Richard C. Holbrooke (1999–2001) Director of the Office of Management and Budget Leon Panetta (1993–94) Alice Rivlin (1994–1996) Franklin D. Raines (1996–1998) Jack Lew (1998–2001) Director of National Drug Control Policy Lee P. Brown (1993–1995) Barry McCaffrey (1996–2001) Trade Representative Mickey Kantor (1993–1997) Charlene Barshefsky (1997–2001) Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency James L. Witt (1993–2001)* Director of Central Intelligence R. James Woolsey Jr. (1993–1995) John M. Deutch (1995–96) George Tenet (1997–2001) Chairperson of the Council of Economic Advisers Laura Tyson (1993–1995) Joseph Stiglitz (1995–1997) Janet Yellen (1997–1999) Martin Neil Baily (1999–2001) Administrator of the Small Business Administration Philip Lader (1994–1997) Aída M. Álverez (1997–2001) * took office in 1993, raised to cabinet-rank in 1996 v t e Governors of Arkansas Territory (1819–1836) J. Miller Izard Crittenden Pope Fulton Statehood (since 1836) J. Conway Yell Adams Drew Byrd Roane E. Conway Rector Fletcher Flanagin Murphy Clayton Hadley Baxter Brooks* Baxter Garland W. Miller Churchill Berry Hughes Eagle Fishback Clarke Jones Davis Little Moore Pindall Martin Donaghey Robinson Oldham Futrell Hays Brough McRae Terral Martineau Parnell Futrell Bailey Adkins Laney McMath Cherry Faubus Rockefeller Bumpers Riley Pryor Purcell Clinton White Clinton Tucker Huckabee Beebe Hutchinson Italics indicates acting governor. * Disputed; see Brooks–Baxter War. v t e Chairs of the National Governors Association Willson McGovern Walsh Spry Capper Harrington Allen Sproul Cox Trinkle Brewster McMullen Dern Case Pollard Rolph McNutt Peery Cochran Stark Vanderbilt Stassen O'Conor Saltonstall Maw Martin Caldwell Hildreth Hunt Lane Carlson Lausche Peterson Shivers Thornton Kennon Langlie Stanley Stratton Collins Boggs McNichols Powell Rosellini Anderson Sawyer Reed Guy Volpe Ellington Love Hearnes Moore Mandel Evans Rampton Ray Andrus Askew Milliken Carroll Bowen Busbee Snelling Matheson J. Thompson Carlin Alexander Clinton Sununu Baliles Branstad Gardner Ashcroft Romer Campbell Dean T. Thompson Miller Voinovich Carper Leavitt Glendening Engler Patton Kempthorne Warner Huckabee Napolitano Pawlenty Rendell Douglas Manchin Gregoire Heineman Markell Fallin Hickenlooper Herbert McAuliffe Sandoval Bullock Hogan v t e Hillary Clinton 67th United States Secretary of State (2009–2013) U.S. senator from New York (2001–2009) First Lady of the United States (1993–2001) Secretary of State Tenure as Secretary Quadrennial Diplomacy and Development Review Foreign policy of the Obama administration Hillary Doctrine Email controversy UN Security Council Resolution 1888 UN Special Representative on Sexual Violence in Conflict U.S. senator Senate career Family Entertainment Protection Act Flag Protection Act of 2005 First Lady 1993 health care reform Hillaryland Travel office controversy FBI files controversy "Vast right-wing conspiracy" Vital Voices Save America's Treasures State Children's Health Insurance Program Adoption and Safe Families Act Foster Care Independence Act White House Millennium Council National Millennium Trail Arkansas Arkansas Advocates for Children and Families Rose Law Firm Legal Services Corporation Whitewater controversy Cattle futures controversy Philanthropic Clinton Foundation State Department controversy Onward Together Speeches and policies Political positions "Women's Rights Are Human Rights" (1995) "Basket of deplorables" (2016) Writings Bibliography Senior thesis (1969) It Takes a Village (1996) Dear Socks, Dear Buddy (1998) An Invitation to the White House (2000) Living History (2003) Hard Choices (2014) Stronger Together (2016) What Happened (2017) The Book of Gutsy Women (2019) Electoral history New York senatorial elections 2000 2006 2008 Democratic Party presidential primaries campaign endorsements debates convention 2016 United States presidential election campaign endorsements political non-political Democratic primaries debates convention General election debates Hillary Victory Fund Legacy Awards and honors Books about Cultural and political image Popular culture Saturday Night Live parodies Hillary and Clinton (2016 play) Hillary (2020 documentary) Family Bill Clinton (husband presidency) Chelsea Clinton (daughter) Hugh E. Rodham (father) Dorothy Howell Rodham (mother) Hugh Rodham (brother) Tony Rodham (brother) Socks (cat) Buddy (dog) Whitehaven (house) Book v t e Time Persons of the Year 1927–1950 Charles Lindbergh (1927) Walter Chrysler (1928) Owen D. Young (1929) Mohandas Gandhi (1930) Pierre Laval (1931) Franklin D. Roosevelt (1932) Hugh S. Johnson (1933) Franklin D. Roosevelt (1934) Haile Selassie (1935) Wallis Simpson (1936) Chiang Kai-shek / Soong Mei-ling (1937) Adolf Hitler (1938) Joseph Stalin (1939) Winston Churchill (1940) Franklin D. Roosevelt (1941) Joseph Stalin (1942) George Marshall (1943) Dwight D. Eisenhower (1944) Harry S. Truman (1945) James F. Byrnes (1946) George Marshall (1947) Harry S. Truman (1948) Winston Churchill (1949) The American Fighting-Man (1950) 1951–1975 Mohammed Mosaddeq (1951) Elizabeth II (1952) Konrad Adenauer (1953) John Foster Dulles (1954) Harlow Curtice (1955) Hungarian Freedom Fighters (1956) Nikita Khrushchev (1957) Charles de Gaulle (1958) Dwight D. Eisenhower (1959) U.S. Scientists: George Beadle / Charles Draper / John Enders / Donald A. Glaser / Joshua Lederberg / Willard Libby / Linus Pauling / Edward Purcell / Isidor Rabi / Emilio Segrè / William Shockley / Edward Teller / Charles Townes / James Van Allen / Robert Woodward (1960) John F. Kennedy (1961) Pope John XXIII (1962) Martin Luther King Jr. (1963) Lyndon B. Johnson (1964) William Westmoreland (1965) The Generation Twenty-Five and Under (1966) Lyndon B. Johnson (1967) The Apollo 8 Astronauts: William Anders / Frank Borman / Jim Lovell (1968) The Middle Americans (1969) Willy Brandt (1970) Richard Nixon (1971) Henry Kissinger / Richard Nixon (1972) John Sirica (1973) King Faisal (1974) American Women: Susan Brownmiller / Kathleen Byerly / Alison Cheek / Jill Conway / Betty Ford / Ella Grasso / Carla Hills / Barbara Jordan / Billie Jean King / Susie Sharp / Carol Sutton / Addie Wyatt (1975) 1976–2000 Jimmy Carter (1976) Anwar Sadat (1977) Deng Xiaoping (1978) Ayatollah Khomeini (1979) Ronald Reagan (1980) Lech Wałęsa (1981) The Computer (1982) Ronald Reagan / Yuri Andropov (1983) Peter Ueberroth (1984) Deng Xiaoping (1985) Corazon Aquino (1986) Mikhail Gorbachev (1987) The Endangered Earth (1988) Mikhail Gorbachev (1989) George H. W. Bush (1990) Ted Turner (1991) Bill Clinton (1992) The Peacemakers: Yasser Arafat / F. W. de Klerk / Nelson Mandela / Yitzhak Rabin (1993) Pope John Paul II (1994) Newt Gingrich (1995) David Ho (1996) Andrew Grove (1997) Bill Clinton / Ken Starr (1998) Jeff Bezos (1999) George W. Bush (2000) 2001–present Rudolph Giuliani (2001) The Whistleblowers: Cynthia Cooper / Coleen Rowley / Sherron Watkins (2002) The American Soldier (2003) George W. Bush (2004) The Good Samaritans: Bono / Bill Gates / Melinda Gates (2005) You (2006) Vladimir Putin (2007) Barack Obama (2008) Ben Bernanke (2009) Mark Zuckerberg (2010) The Protester (2011) Barack Obama (2012) Pope Francis (2013) Ebola Fighters: Dr. Jerry Brown / Dr. Kent Brantly / Ella Watson-Stryker / Foday Gollah / Salome Karwah (2014) Angela Merkel (2015) Donald Trump (2016) The Silence Breakers (2017) The Guardians: Jamal Khashoggi / Maria Ressa / Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo / Staff of The Capital (2018) Greta Thunberg (2019) Book v t e Recipients of the Charlemagne Prize 1950–1975 1950 Richard von Coudenhove-Kalergi 1951 Hendrik Brugmans 1952 Alcide De Gasperi 1953 Jean Monnet 1954 Konrad Adenauer 1955 1956 Winston Churchill 1957 Paul-Henri Spaak 1958 Robert Schuman 1959 George Marshall 1960 Joseph Bech 1961 Walter Hallstein 1962 1963 Edward Heath 1964 Antonio Segni 1965 1966 Jens Otto Krag 1967 Joseph Luns 1968 1969 European Commission 1970 François Seydoux de Clausonne 1971 1972 Roy Jenkins 1973 Salvador de Madariaga 1974 1975 1976–2000 1976 Leo Tindemans 1977 Walter Scheel 1978 Konstantinos Karamanlis 1979 Emilio Colombo 1980 1981 Simone Veil 1982 King Juan Carlos I 1983 1984 1985 1986 People of Luxembourg 1987 Henry Kissinger 1988 François Mitterrand / Helmut Kohl 1989 Brother Roger 1990 Gyula Horn 1991 Václav Havel 1992 Jacques Delors 1993 Felipe González 1994 Gro Harlem Brundtland 1995 Franz Vranitzky 1996 Queen Beatrix 1997 Roman Herzog 1998 Bronisław Geremek 1999 Tony Blair 2000 Bill Clinton 2001–present 2001 György Konrád 2002 Euro 2003 Valéry Giscard d'Estaing 2004 Pat Cox / Pope John Paul II1 2005 Carlo Azeglio Ciampi 2006 Jean-Claude Juncker 2007 Javier Solana 2008 Angela Merkel 2009 Andrea Riccardi 2010 Donald Tusk 2011 Jean-Claude Trichet 2012 Wolfgang Schäuble 2013 Dalia Grybauskaitė 2014 Herman Van Rompuy 2015 Martin Schulz 2016 Pope Francis 2017 Timothy Garton Ash 2018 Emmanuel Macron 2019 António Guterres 2020 Klaus Iohannis 1 Received extraordinary prize. v t e Grammy Award for Best Spoken Word Album 1959−1980 Stan Freberg – The Best of the Stan Freberg Shows (1959) Carl Sandburg – Lincoln Portrait (1960) Robert Bialek (producer) – FDR Speaks (1961) Leonard Bernstein – Humor in Music (1962) Charles Laughton – The Story-Teller: A Session With Charles Laughton (1963) Edward Albee (playwright) – Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? (1964) That Was the Week That Was – BBC Tribute to John F. Kennedy (1965) Goddard Lieberson (producer) – John F. Kennedy - As We Remember Him (1966) Edward R. Murrow – Edward R. Murrow - A Reporter Remembers, Vol. I The War Years (1967) Everett Dirksen – Gallant Men (1968) Rod McKuen – Lonesome Cities (1969) Art Linkletter & Diane Linkletter – We Love You Call Collect (1970) Martin Luther King Jr. – Why I Oppose the War in Vietnam (1971) Les Crane – Desiderata (1972) Bruce Botnick (producer) – Lenny performed by the original Broadway cast (1973) Richard Harris – Jonathan Livingston Seagull (1974) Peter Cook and Dudley Moore – Good Evening (1975) James Whitmore – Give 'em Hell, Harry! (1976) Henry Fonda, Helen Hayes, James Earl Jones and Orson Welles - Great American Documents (1977) Julie Harris – The Belle of Amherst (1978) Orson Welles – Citizen Kane Original Motion Picture Soundtrack (1979) John Gielgud – Ages of Man - Readings From Shakespeare (1980) 1981−2000 Pat Carroll – Gertrude Stein, Gertrude Stein, Gertrude Stein (1981) Orson Welles – Donovan's Brain (1982) Tom Voegeli (producer) – Raiders of the Lost Ark - The Movie on Record performed by Various Artists (1983) William Warfield – Lincoln Portrait (1984) Ben Kingsley – The Words of Gandhi (1985) Mike Berniker (producer) & the original Broadway cast – Ma Rainey's Black Bottom (1986) Johnny Cash, Jerry Lee Lewis, Chips Moman, Ricky Nelson, Roy Orbison, Carl Perkins and Sam Phillips – Interviews From the Class of '55 Recording Sessions (1987) Garrison Keillor – Lake Wobegon Days (1988) Jesse Jackson – Speech by Rev. Jesse Jackson (1989) Gilda Radner – It's Always Something (1990) George Burns – Gracie: A Love Story (1991) Ken Burns – The Civil War (1992) Earvin "Magic" Johnson and Robert O'Keefe – What You Can Do to Avoid AIDS (1993) Maya Angelou – On the Pulse of Morning (1994) Henry Rollins – Get in the Van (1995) Maya Angelou – Phenomenal Woman (1996) Hillary Clinton – It Takes a Village (1997) Charles Kuralt – Charles Kuralt's Spring (1998) Christopher Reeve – Still Me (1999) LeVar Burton – The Autobiography of Martin Luther King Jr. (2000) 2001−present Sidney Poitier, Rick Harris & John Runnette (producers) – The Measure of a Man: A Spiritual Autobiography (2001) Quincy Jones, Jeffrey S. Thomas, Steven Strassman (engineers) and Elisa Shokoff (producer) – Q: The Autobiography of Quincy Jones (2002) Maya Angelou and Charles B. Potter (producer) – A Song Flung Up to Heaven / Robin Williams, Nathaniel Kunkel (engineer/mixer) and Peter Asher (producer) – Live 2002 (2003) Al Franken and Paul Ruben (producer) – Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them (2004) Bill Clinton – My Life (2005) Barack Obama – Dreams from My Father (2006) Jimmy Carter – Our Endangered Values: America's Moral Crisis / Ossie Davis and Ruby Dee - With Ossie and Ruby (2007) Barack Obama and Jacob Bronstein (producer) – The Audacity of Hope (2008) Beau Bridges, Cynthia Nixon and Blair Underwood – An Inconvenient Truth by Al Gore (2009) Michael J. Fox – Always Looking Up (2010) Jon Stewart – The Daily Show with Jon Stewart Presents Earth (The Audiobook) (2011) Betty White – If You Ask Me (And Of Course You Won't) (2012) Janis Ian – Society's Child (2013) Stephen Colbert – America Again: Re-becoming The Greatness We Never Weren't (2014) Joan Rivers – Diary of a Mad Diva (2015) Jimmy Carter – A Full Life: Reflections at 90 (2016) Carol Burnett – In Such Good Company: Eleven Years of Laughter, Mayhem, and Fun in the Sandbox (2017) Carrie Fisher – The Princess Diarist (2018) Jimmy Carter – Faith: A Journey for All (2019) Michelle Obama – Becoming (2020) Biography portal 1990s portal United States portal Law portal Politics portal Authority control BIBSYS: 90706336 BNE: XX1085266 BNF: cb12375168h (data) CANTIC: a11696783 GND: 119063395 ISNI: 0000 0001 2096 7620 LCCN: n82029644 MusicBrainz: a11bd200-7f0b-43a6-b7fe-4ea04929a42b NARA: 10569448 NDL: 00464673 NKC: jn20000700315 NLA: 36058788 NLI: 001401438 NLK: KAC199638852 NLP: A11873644 NTA: 102016194 ICCU: IT\ICCU\MILV\094368 SELIBR: 173992 SNAC: w6251gqr SUDOC: 031695582 Trove: 1204029 ULAN: 500238157 VIAF: 102338519 WorldCat Identities: lccn-n82029644 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Bill_Clinton&oldid=953797587" Categories: Clinton administration cabinet members Bill Clinton 1946 births 2016 United States presidential electors 20th-century American politicians 20th-century American writers 20th-century Baptists 20th-century Presidents of the United States 21st-century American non-fiction writers 21st-century American novelists 21st-century American politicians 21st-century Baptists 21st-century Presidents of the United States Alumni of University College, Oxford Ambassadors of the United States to Haiti American autobiographers American humanitarians American male non-fiction writers American male novelists American male saxophonists American memoirists American officials of the United Nations American people of English descent American people of Irish descent American people of Scotch-Irish descent American people of Scottish descent American political writers American Rhodes Scholars American saxophonists American thriller writers Arkansas Attorneys General Arkansas Democrats Arkansas lawyers Baptists from Arkansas Candidates in the 1980 United States elections Candidates in the 1992 United States presidential election Candidates in the 1996 United States presidential election Clinton Foundation people Clinton–Lewinsky scandal Collars of the Order of the White Lion Democratic Party (United States) presidential nominees Democratic Party Presidents of the United States Democratic Party state governors of the United States DeMolay International Hall of Fame members Disbarred American lawyers School of Foreign Service alumni Family of Bill and Hillary Clinton Fellows of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences Fellows of University College, Oxford Governors of Arkansas Grammy Award winners Grand Companions of the Order of Logohu Grand Crosses of the National Order of Honour and Merit Hot Springs High School (Arkansas) alumni Impeached Presidents of the United States Living people People from Hope, Arkansas Political careers by person Politicians from Hot Springs, Arkansas Politicians from Little Rock, Arkansas Presidential Medal of Freedom recipients Presidents of the United States Recipients of St. George's Order of Victory Recipients of the Four Freedoms Award Recipients of the Order of the Cross of Terra Mariana, 1st Class Recipients of the Presidential Medal of Distinction of Israel Rodham family Spouses of New York (state) politicians University of Arkansas faculty Writers from Arkansas Yale Law School alumni New York (state) Democrats Hidden categories: All articles lacking reliable references Articles lacking reliable references from April 2019 All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from April 2017 Articles with permanently dead external links Webarchive template wayback links Wikipedia indefinitely move-protected pages Use American English from February 2019 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Good articles Wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected biographies of living people Use mdy dates from April 2020 Articles with short description Articles with hAudio microformats Articles with Curlie links Articles with Project Gutenberg links Wikipedia articles with BIBSYS identifiers Wikipedia articles with BNE identifiers Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers Wikipedia articles with CANTIC identifiers Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers Wikipedia articles with MusicBrainz identifiers Wikipedia articles with NARA identifiers Wikipedia articles with NDL identifiers Wikipedia articles with NKC identifiers Wikipedia articles with NLA identifiers Wikipedia articles with NLI identifiers Wikipedia articles with NLK identifiers Wikipedia articles with NLP identifiers Wikipedia articles with NTA identifiers Wikipedia articles with SBN identifiers Wikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiers Wikipedia articles with SNAC-ID identifiers Wikipedia articles with SUDOC identifiers Wikipedia articles with Trove identifiers Wikipedia articles with ULAN identifiers Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers Wikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiers Articles containing video clips Pages using the Graph extension Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read View source View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikinews Wikiquote Wikisource Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Acèh Afrikaans Alemannisch አማርኛ Ænglisc العربية Aragonés Arpetan Asturianu Aymar aru Azərbaycanca تۆرکجه বাংলা Bân-lâm-gú Беларуская Беларуская (тарашкевіца)‎ Bikol Central Bislama Български Boarisch Bosanski Brezhoneg Català Чӑвашла Cebuano Čeština Corsu Cymraeg Dansk Davvisámegiella Deitsch Deutsch ދިވެހިބަސް Diné bizaad डोटेली Eesti Ελληνικά Emiliàn e rumagnòl Español Esperanto Euskara فارسی Føroyskt Français Frysk Gaeilge Gaelg Gàidhlig Galego 客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî 한국어 Հայերեն हिन्दी Hornjoserbsce Hrvatski Ido Ilokano Bahasa Indonesia Interlingua IsiZulu Íslenska Italiano עברית Jawa ಕನ್ನಡ Kapampangan ქართული Қазақша Kernowek Kinyarwanda Kiswahili Kreyòl ayisyen Kurdî Кыргызча Latina Latviešu Lëtzebuergesch Lietuvių Ligure Limburgs Lingála Lingua Franca Nova La .lojban. Lumbaart Magyar मैथिली Македонски Malagasy മലയാളം मराठी მარგალური مصرى مازِرونی Bahasa Melayu Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄ Монгол မြန်မာဘာသာ Nāhuatl Nederlands नेपाली 日本語 Nordfriisk Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Occitan ଓଡ଼ିଆ Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча ਪੰਜਾਬੀ پنجابی Piemontèis Tok Pisin Plattdüütsch Polski Português Ripoarisch Română Rumantsch Runa Simi Русский Scots Shqip Sicilianu සිංහල Simple English Slovenčina Slovenščina Soomaaliga کوردی Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Suomi Svenska Tagalog தமிழ் Татарча/tatarça తెలుగు ไทย Тоҷикӣ Türkçe Українська اردو ئۇيغۇرچە / Uyghurche Tiếng Việt Winaray 吴语 ייִדיש Yorùbá 粵語 Zeêuws Žemaitėška 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 29 April 2020, at 02:49 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view