https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_Secretary_of_State
United States Secretary of State - Wikipedia
United States Secretary of State From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Not to be confused with Secretary of state (U.S. state government). For a list, see List of Secretaries of State of the United States. United States Secretary of State Seal of the Secretary of State Flag of the Secretary of State Incumbent Mike Pompeo since April 26, 2018 United States Department of State Style Mr. Secretary Member of Cabinet National Security Council Reports to President of the United States Seat Washington, D.C. Appointer The President with Senate advice and consent Constituting instrument 22 U.S.C. § 2651 Precursor Secretary of Foreign Affairs Formation July 27, 1789; 230 years ago (1789-07-27) First holder Thomas Jefferson Succession Fourth[1] Deputy Deputy Secretary of State Salary Executive Schedule, level I[2] Website www.state.gov The secretary of state is a senior official of the federal government of the United States of America and the head of the United States Department of State. The secretary of state's duties are principally concerned with foreign policy, and they are considered to be the U.S. government's minister of foreign affairs.[3][4] The secretary of state is nominated by the president of the United States and, following a confirmation hearing before the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, is confirmed by the United States Senate. The secretary of state, along with the secretary of the treasury, secretary of defense, and attorney general, are generally regarded as the four most important Cabinet members because of the importance of their respective departments.[5] Secretary of State is a Level I position in the Executive Schedule and thus earns the salary prescribed for that level (currently US$210,700).[2] The current secretary of state is Mike Pompeo, who has served as Secretary of State in the administration of President Donald Trump since early 2018. Contents 1 Duties and responsibilities 2 References 3 Further reading 4 External links Duties and responsibilities[edit] The stated duties of the secretary of state are to supervise the United States foreign service, immigration policy, and administer the Department of State. They must also advise the president on U.S. foreign matters such as the appointment of diplomats and ambassadors. They also advise the president of the dismissal and recall of these individuals. The secretary of state can conduct negotiations, interpret, and terminate treaties relating to foreign policy. They also can participate in international conferences, organizations and agencies as a representative of the United States. The secretary of state communicates issues relating to the U.S. foreign policy to Congress and U.S. citizens. They also provide services to U.S. citizens living or traveling abroad such as providing credentials in the form of passports. Doing this, they also ensure the protection of U.S. citizens themselves, their property, and interests in foreign countries.[6] Secretaries of state also have domestic responsibilities, entrusted in 1789, when the position was first created. These include the protection and custody of the Great Seal of the United States, and the preparation of some presidential proclamations. In the process of extraditing fugitives to or from the U.S., the secretary serves as the channel of communication between foreign governments and the federal government and the states.[6] Most of the domestic functions of the Department of State have been transferred to other agencies. Those that remain include storage and use of the Great Seal of the United States, performance of protocol functions for the White House, and the drafting of certain proclamations. The secretary also negotiates with the individual States over the extradition of fugitives to foreign countries.[7] Under Federal Law,[8] the resignation of a president or of a vice president is only valid if declared in writing, in an instrument delivered to the office of the secretary of state. Accordingly, the resignations of President Richard Nixon and of Vice President Spiro Agnew were formalized in instruments delivered to Secretary of State Henry Kissinger. As the highest-ranking member of the cabinet, the secretary of state is the third-highest official of the executive branch of the federal government of the United States, after the president and vice president, and is fourth in line to succeed the presidency, coming after the vice president, the speaker of the House of Representatives, and the president pro tempore of the Senate. Six secretaries of state have gone on to be elected president. Others, including Henry Clay, William Seward, James Blaine, William Jennings Bryan, John Kerry, and Hillary Clinton have been unsuccessful presidential candidates, either before or after their term of office as Secretary of State. The nature of the position means that secretaries of state engage in travel around the world. The record for most countries visited in a secretary's tenure is 112 by Hillary Clinton.[9] Second is Madeleine Albright with 96.[10] The record for most air miles traveled in a secretary's tenure is 1,417,576 miles by John Kerry.[11] Second is Condoleezza Rice's 1,059,247 miles,[12] and third is Clinton's 956,733 miles.[13] What are the Qualifications of a Secretary of State? He ought to be a Man of universal Reading in Laws, Governments, History. Our whole terrestrial Universe ought to be summarily comprehended in his Mind. —John Adams[14] References[edit] ^ "3 U.S. Code § 19 - Vacancy in offices of both President and Vice President; officers eligible to act". Cornell Law School. ^ a b 5 U.S.C. § 5312. ^ "Heads of State, Heads of Government, Ministers for Foreign Affairs", Protocol and Liaison Service, United Nations. Retrieved November 2, 2012. ^ NATO Member Countries, NATO. Retrieved November 2, 2012. ^ "Cabinets and Counselors: The President and the Executive Branch" (1997). Congressional Quarterly. p. 87. ^ a b "Duties of the Secretary of State". U.S. Department of State. Retrieved February 1, 2017. ^ "Duties of the Secretary of State of the United States". www.state.gov. United States Department of State. January 20, 2009. Retrieved March 28, 2010. ^ "3 U.S. Code § 20 - Resignation or refusal of office". ^ Mark Landler (January 4, 2013). "Scare Adds to Fears That Clinton's Work Has Taken Toll". The New York Times. ^ Lee, Matthew (June 28, 2012). "Frequent flier Hillary Clinton hits 100-country mark". Detroit Free Press. Associated Press. Archived from the original on June 28, 2012. ^ https://2009-2017.state.gov/secretary/travel/index.htm ^ https://2001-2009.state.gov/secretary/trvl/index.htm ^ https://2009-2017.state.gov/secretary/20092013clinton/trvl/264084.htm ^ Ford, Worthington C., ed. (1927). Statesman and Friend: Correspondence of John Adams with Benjamin Waterhouse, 1784–1822. Boston, MA: Little, Brown, and Company. p. 57. Further reading[edit] Bemis, Samuel Flagg, ed. The American secretaries of state and their diplomacy (19 vol., 1963( scholarly biographies. Graebner, Norman A., ed. An Uncertain Tradition: American Secretaries of State in the Twentieth Century (1961) scholarly essays on John Hay through John Foster Dulles. Hopkins, Michael F. "President Harry Truman's Secretaries of State: Stettinius, Byrnes, Marshall and Acheson." Journal of Transatlantic Studies 6.3 (2008): 290-304. Mihalkanin Edward, ed. American Statesmen: Secretaries of State from John Jay to Colin Powell (2004); short scholarly articles by experts; 572pp online External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Secretaries of State of the United States. Wikiquote has quotations related to: United States Secretary of State Listen to this article (info/dl) This audio file was created from a revision of the article "United States Secretary of State" dated 2010-02-23, and does not reflect subsequent edits to the article. (Audio help) More spoken articles Official website U.S. order of precedence (ceremonial) Preceded by Ambassadors from the United States (while at their posts) Order of Precedence of the United States as Secretary of State Succeeded by Ambassadors to the United States (in order of tenure) Preceded by Otherwise Barack Obama as Former President Succeeded by Otherwise António Guterres as Secretary-General of the United Nations U.S. presidential line of succession Preceded by President pro tempore of the Senate Charles Grassley 4th in line Succeeded by Secretary of the Treasury Steve Mnuchin v t e United States Secretaries of State Secretary of Foreign Affairs 1781–89 R. Livingston Jay Secretary of State 1789–present Jefferson Randolph Pickering J. Marshall Madison Smith Monroe Adams Clay Van Buren E. Livingston McLane Forsyth Webster Upshur Calhoun Buchanan Clayton Webster Everett Marcy Cass Black Seward Washburne Fish Evarts Blaine Frelinghuysen Bayard Blaine Foster Gresham Olney Sherman Day Hay Root Bacon Knox Bryan Lansing Colby Hughes Kellogg Stimson Hull Stettinius Byrnes G. Marshall Acheson Dulles Herter Rusk Rogers Kissinger Vance Muskie Haig Shultz Baker Eagleburger Christopher Albright Powell Rice (tenure) Clinton (tenure) Kerry (tenure) Tillerson Pompeo v t e Agencies under the United States Department of State Headquarters: Harry S Truman Building Mike Pompeo, Secretary of State Stephen Biegun, Deputy Secretary of State and Deputy Secretary of State for Management and Resources David Hale, Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs Deputy Secretary of State and Deputy Secretary of State for Management and Resources Office of U.S. Foreign Assistance Resources Under Secretary for Political Affairs Bureau of African Affairs Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs Bureau of International Organization Affairs (United States Mission to the United Nations) Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs Under Secretary for Economic Growth, Energy, and the Environment Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs Bureau of Energy Resources Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs Office of the Chief Economist Office of Global Partnerships Office of the Science and Technology Advisor to the Secretary Under Secretary for Arms Control and International Security Affairs Bureau of Arms Control, Verification and Compliance Bureau of International Security and Nonproliferation Bureau of Political-Military Affairs International Security Advisory Board Under Secretary for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs Bureau of Global Public Affairs Global Engagement Center Office of Policy, Planning, and Resources U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy International Expositions Unit Special Advisor for Global Youth Issues Under Secretary for Management Bureau of Administration Bureau of Budget and Planning Bureau of Consular Affairs Bureau of Diplomatic Security Bureau of Human Resources Bureau of Information Resource Management Bureau of Medical Services Bureau of Overseas Buildings Operations Bureau of the Comptroller and Global Financial Services Foreign Service Institute Office of Foreign Missions Director of Diplomatic Reception Rooms Office of Emergencies in the Diplomatic and Consular Service Office of Management Policy, Rightsizing, and Innovation Office of White House Liaison Under Secretary for Civilian Security, Democracy, and Human Rights Bureau of Conflict and Stabilization Operations Bureau of Counterterrorism and Countering Violent Extremism Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration Office of Global Criminal Justice Office of International Religious Freedom Office of the Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons Bureaus/Offices reporting directly to the Secretary Bureau of Intelligence and Research Bureau of Legislative Affairs Office of the Counselor Executive Secretariat (Operations Center) Office of Civil Rights Office of Inspector General Office of the Legal Adviser Policy Planning Staff (Foreign Affairs Policy Board) Secretary's Open Forum Office of the Chief of Protocol Office of Global Women's Issues Office of the Ombudsman Foreign Service Grievance Board Office of the Coordinator for Cyber Issues Office of the U.S. Global AIDS Coordinator and Health Diplomacy Office of the Special Presidential Envoy for Hostage Affairs Office of the Special Presidential Envoy for the Global Coalition to Defeat ISIS Office of the Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Office of the Special Representative for Iran Office of the Special Representative for Syria Engagement Office of the Special Representative for Venezuela Chief of Staff v t e Leaders of the United States federal executive departments Current Agriculture Commerce Defense Education Energy Health and Human Services Homeland Security Housing and Urban Development Interior Justice Labor State Transportation Treasury Veterans Affairs Past Commerce and Labor Health, Education, and Welfare Navy Post Office War v t e Presidential line of succession in the United States of America Vice President (Mike Pence) Speaker of the House of Representatives (Nancy Pelosi) President pro tempore of the Senate (Chuck Grassley) Secretary of State (Mike Pompeo) Secretary of the Treasury (Steven Mnuchin) Secretary of Defense (Mark Esper) Attorney General (William Barr) Secretary of the Interior (David Bernhardt) Secretary of Agriculture (Sonny Perdue) Secretary of Commerce (Wilbur Ross) Secretary of Labor (Gene Scalia) Secretary of Health and Human Services (Alex Azar) Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (Ben Carson) Secretary of Transportation (Elaine Chao*) Secretary of Energy (Dan Brouillette) Secretary of Education (Betsy DeVos) Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Robert Wilkie) Secretary of Homeland Security (Chad Wolf**) * Ineligible to act as president • ** Ambiguity exists concerning eligibility to act as president Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=United_States_Secretary_of_State&oldid=952244187" Categories: United States Department of State United States Secretaries of State Cabinet of the United States Foreign ministers United States diplomacy Hidden categories: Use American English from July 2018 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Use mdy dates from July 2018 Commons category link is on Wikidata Spoken articles Articles with hAudio microformats Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikiquote Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages العربية Azərbaycanca Bân-lâm-gú Беларуская Български Català Čeština Cymraeg Dansk Deutsch Eesti Español Esperanto فارسی Français 客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî 한국어 Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Italiano עברית Jawa ქართული Latina Latviešu Lietuvių მარგალური Bahasa Melayu မြန်မာဘာသာ 日本語 Norsk bokmål Polski Português Română Русский Scots සිංහල Simple English Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Suomi Svenska Tagalog ไทย Türkçe Українська اردو Tiếng Việt 粵語 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 21 April 2020, at 07:47 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view