https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tom_Cotton
Tom Cotton - Wikipedia
Tom Cotton From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search United States Senator from Arkansas Tom Cotton United States Senator from Arkansas Incumbent Assumed office January 3, 2015 Serving with John Boozman Preceded by Mark Pryor Member of the U.S. House of Representatives from Arkansas's 4th district In office January 3, 2013 – January 3, 2015 Preceded by Mike Ross Succeeded by Bruce Westerman Personal details Born Thomas Bryant Cotton (1977-05-13) May 13, 1977 (age 42) Dardanelle, Arkansas, U.S. Political party Republican Spouse(s) Anna Peckham (m. 2014) Children 2 Education Harvard University (AB, JD) Website Senate website Military service Allegiance United States Branch/service United States Army Years of service 2005–2009 (active) 2009–2013 (reserve) Rank Captain Unit 506th Infantry Regiment, 101st Airborne Division 3d Infantry Regiment Battles/wars War on Terrorism Afghanistan Campaign Iraq Campaign Awards Bronze Star Medal Combat Infantryman Badge Ranger Tab This article is part of a series on Conservatism in the United States Schools Compassionate Fiscal Fusion Libertarian Movement Neo Nationalist Paleo Social Traditional Principles American exceptionalism Classical liberalism Family values Free market Free trade Judeo-Christian values Limited government Moral absolutism Natural law Pax Americana Republicanism Rule of law Tradition History Bourbon Democrat Conservative coalition Conservative Democrat Conservative Manifesto Loyalists Modern timeline New Right Old Right Overview Rockefeller Republican Southern Agrarians People Abrams Adelson Agnew Ailes Alito Amash Anton Armey Armitage Arpaio Ashcroft Atwater Babbtt Bachmann Baker Bakker (Jim) Bakker (Tammy Faye) Bannon Barbour Barr Barrack Beck Benson Bevin Blackburn Blackwell Blankenship Boehner Bolton Bond Bork Bossie Boykin Bozell Jr. Bradford Bradley Branstad Brat Breitbart Brewer Broidy Brooks Brownback Buchanan Buckley Jr. Bundy Burger Burnham Burns Bush 41 Bush 43 Bush (George P.) Bush (Jeb) Bush (Prescott) Cain Cantor Card Carlson (Gretchen) Carlson (Tucker) Carson Cernovich Chambers Cheney Christie Cleveland Coburn Cohn Colson Conway (George) Conway (Kellyanne) Corker Cotton Coolidge Coors (Holly) Coors (Joseph) Coors (Pete) Coulter Clarke Crowder Cruz Cuccinelli Curtis DeLay DeMint Derbyshire Dewey Dice diGenova Dirksen Dobbs Dobson Dolan (Terry) Dolan (Timothy) Dole Donohue D'Souza Duggar Dulles (Allen) Dulles (John Foster) Eastland Earhardt Eastwood Elder Eisenhower Erickson Falwell Falwell Jr. Feulner Fiorina Fischer Fleming Forbes Ford Francis Friedman Friess Frist Frum Gaetz Gates Gerson Gianforte Gingrich Gohmert Gottfried Goldberg Goldwater Gonzales Gorka Gorsuch Goss Gowdy Graham (Billy) Graham (Franklin) Graham (Lindsey) Grant Grassley Guilfoyle Giuliani Hagee Haig Hamm Hannity Hastert Hasselbeck Hatch Helms Hewitt Hicks Hoover Hoppe Horowitz Holmes Huckabee Hunt Huntsman Icahn Ingraham Jaffa Jeffress Jindal Johnson Jones Jordan Kasich Kavanaugh Kelly Kemp Kennedy Keyes King (Alveda) King (Steve) Kirk Kirkpatrick Kissinger Klayman Knowland Kobach Koch (Charles) Koch (David) Koch (Fred) Krauthammer Kristol (Bill) Kristol (Irving) Kushner Laffer Lahren LaPierre Lee LeMay Leo Levin Lewandowski Limbaugh Lindbergh Lodge Loesch Lott Lowry Luce Maddox Malkin Manafort Mason Massie McCain McCarthy (Joseph) McCarthy (Kevin) McCloy McConnell McCurtain McEnany McDaniel McDonald McFarlane McMahon (Linda) McMahon (Vince) Meadows Meese Mercer (Rebekah) Mercer (Robert) Meyer Miller Moore Mueller Mullin Mulvaney Murchison Murdoch Napolitano Negroponte Nixon Nehlen Noonan Norquist North Novak Nugent Nunes O'Keefe Oliver Olson (Barbara) Olson (Theodore) O'Reilly Osborne Osteen Owens Pataki Parscale Palin Patton Paul (Rand) Paul (Ron) Peale Pearson Pence Perkins Perot Perry Peterson Phillips Pierson Pipes Podhoretz (John) Podhoretz (Norman) Pompeo Porterfield Powell Prager Price Priebus Rand Reagan Reed Rice Rivera Roberts (John) Roberts (Oral) Robertson (Pat) Robertson (Phil) Rockefeller Romney Rock Rove Ryan Rubio Rumsfield Ruffin Russell Jr. Sanders Sanford Santorum Sailer Sasse Savage Scaife Scalia Scalise Scaramucci Schlafly Schlesinger Scott (Darrell) Scott (Tim) Sekulow Sessions Shapiro Sheldon Shultz Skousen Smith Sobran Sowell Starr Stevens Stimson Stoddard Strauss Stone Taft (Robert A.) Taft (William Howard) Tantaros Tebow Thiel Thomas Thompson (Fred) Thompson (Tommy) Thune Thurmond Toensing Toomey Trump (Donald) Trump (Ivanka) Trump (Lara) Trump Jr. Tuberville Tyrrell Van Drew Varney Vandenberg Viguerie Volpe Walker Walsh Wayne Weaver Weinberger Welch Jr. West Weyrich Whitaker White (Dana) White (Paula) Whitman Wolfowitz Will Williams (Armstrong) Williams (Walter E.) Wilson Wynn Parties American Party American Independent Party Conservative Party of New York State Constitution Party Democratic Party (early) Federalist Party Libertarian Party Native American Party Prohibition Party Reform Party Republican Party (modern) States' Rights Democratic Party Think tanks Acton Institute Alexis de Tocqueville Institution American Enterprise Institute Center for Immigration Studies Center for Security Policy Center for the National Interest Charles Koch Institute Claremont Institute Competitive Enterprise Institute David Horowitz Freedom Center Discovery Institute Ethics and Public Policy Center Family Research Institute Gatestone Institute The Heartland Institute The Heritage Foundation Hoover Institution Hudson Institute Intercollegiate Studies Institute Institute on the Constitution Manhattan Institute Mises Institute Pacific Research Institute Project for the New American Century Ripon Society R Street Institute Rockford Institute State Policy Network Tax Foundation Other organizations ACT! for America Alliance Defending Freedom American Center for Law & Justice American Family Association American Liberty League Arlington Group Chalcedon Foundation Christian Coalition of America Christian Voice Club for Growth Concerned Women for America ConservAmerica The Conservative Caucus Council of Conservative Citizens Council for National Policy Eagle Forum Faith and Freedom Coalition Family Research Council Federalist Society Federation for American Immigration Reform The Fellowship Focus on the Family Foundation for Individual Rights in Education Foundation for Moral Law Freedom Caucus Freedom Partners FreedomWorks Gun Owners of America Independent Women's Forum John Birch Society John M. Olin Foundation Judicial Watch Leadership Institute Liberty Lobby Log Cabin Republicans Media Research Center Moral Majority National Conservative PAC National Federation of Independent Business National Organization for Marriage National Rifle Association National Right to Life Committee National Taxpayers Union NumbersUSA Oath Keepers Philadelphia Society Regnery Publishing Republican Main Street Partnership Republican Study Committee Second Amendment Caucus Susan B. Anthony List Tea Party Patriots Turning Point USA Traditional Values Coalition United States Chamber of Commerce Young America's Foundation Young Americans for Liberty Youth for Western Civilization Media American Affairs The American Conservative The American Spectator American Renaissance American Thinker Blaze Media Breitbart News Campus Reform Chicago Tribune CBN City Journal Claremont Review of Books CNSNews.com Commentary Conservative Review Chronicles Daily Caller Daily Signal Daily Wire Dallas Morning News Drudge Report The Federalist First Things Fox Business Fox News FrontPage Magazine Front Porch Republic Gateway Pundit Hot Air Human Events Independent Journal Review InfoWars Jewish World Review Jihad Watch Las Vegas Review-Journal LifeSiteNews LifeZette Modern Age National Affairs The National Interest National Review The New American The New Criterion NewsBusters Newsmax New York Observer New York Post One America News Network PanAm Post Policy Review Power Line PragerU PJ Media Rare Real News Update RedState RSBN Sinclair Broadcast Group The Spotlight Taki's Magazine Townhall TruthRevolt Twitchy VDARE The Wall Street Journal Washington Examiner The Washington Free Beacon The Washington Times The Weekly Standard The Western Journal WorldNetDaily Variants and movements Asian and Pacific Islander conservatism Black conservatism Christian right Conservative Democrats Female conservatism Green conservatism LGBT conservatism Libertarian conservatism Libertarian Republicans Patriot movement Radical Right Right-libertarianism Tea Party movement See also American nationalism Bibliography Libertarianism List Conservatism portal v t e Thomas Bryant Cotton (born May 13, 1977) is an American attorney, military veteran, and politician serving as the junior United States senator for Arkansas since January 3, 2015. He is a member of the Republican Party. In 2005, he commissioned in the U.S. Army, where he rose to the rank of captain. Cotton's military background includes service in Afghanistan and deployment to Iraq during Operation Iraqi Freedom; he is a Bronze Star recipient. Cotton served in the United States House of Representatives from 2013 to 2015. He was elected to the U.S. Senate at age 37 in 2014, defeating two-term Democratic incumbent Mark Pryor. Contents 1 Early life, education, and military career (1977–2013) 1.1 Formative years and education 1.2 Military service 1.2.1 Letter to the New York Times 2 Political career (2013–present) 2.1 U.S. House of Representatives (2013-2015) 2.1.1 Committee assignments 2.2 U.S. Senate (2015–present) 2.3 Tenure 2.3.1 Cassandra Butts nomination 2.3.2 Potential roles in the Trump administration 2.4 Committee assignments 2.5 Caucuses 3 Political positions 3.1 Domestic policy 3.1.1 Corporate disclosure 3.1.2 Criminal justice reform 3.1.3 Gun laws 3.1.4 Healthcare 3.1.5 Immigration 3.1.6 Infrastructure 3.1.7 Minimum wage 3.1.8 Social issues 3.1.9 Student loans 3.2 Foreign policy 3.2.1 China 3.2.1.1 Coronavirus 3.2.2 Iran 3.2.3 Russia 4 Personal life 5 Electoral history 6 See also 7 References 8 External links Early life, education, and military career (1977–2013)[edit] Formative years and education[edit] Tom Cotton was born on May 13, 1977 in Dardanelle, Arkansas.[1] Cotton's father, Thomas Leonard "Len" Cotton, was a district supervisor in the Arkansas Health Department, and his mother, Avis (née Bryant) Cotton, was a schoolteacher who later became principal of their district's middle school.[2] Cotton's family had lived in rural Arkansas for seven generations, and he grew up on his family's cattle farm.[3][4] He attended Dardanelle High School where he played on the local and regional basketball teams; standing 6 ft 5 in (1.96 m) tall, he was usually required to play center.[4][5] While in high school, Cotton developed an intense desire to attend Harvard College, and worked intently on his studies toward that goal.[4] He was accepted to Harvard after graduating from high school in 1995, and majored in government. At Harvard, Cotton was a member of the editorial board of The Harvard Crimson, often dissenting from the liberal majority.[5] In articles, Cotton addressed what he saw as "sacred cows" such as affirmative action.[6] He graduated with an A.B. magna cum laude in 1998 after only three years of study, having written his senior thesis on The Federalist Papers.[4] After graduating from Harvard, Cotton was accepted into a master's degree program at Claremont Graduate University. He left in 1999, saying that he found academic life "too sedentary", and instead enrolled at Harvard Law School.[4] Cotton graduated from Harvard Law School with a J.D. degree in 2002.[7] After finishing law school in 2002, he served for a year as a clerk for Judge Jerry Edwin Smith at the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. He then entered the practice of law, working at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher for a few months to start paying off his student loans, and later at the law firm of Charles J. Cooper & Kirk from 2003 to 2004.[8] Military service[edit] On January 11, 2005, Cotton entered active duty service the U.S. Army.[9] Cotton declined offers to serve in the Army J.A.G. Corps and instead volunteered for the infantry. Cotton had resolved to serve as an Army infantryman in his third year of law school while watching live news coverage of the September 11 attacks, and had begun a regimen of physical exercise and studying military history.[10] In March 2005, he entered Officer Candidate School, and in June 2005 was commissioned in the infantry as a second lieutenant.[11] In May 2006, Cotton was deployed to Baghdad as part of Operation Iraqi Freedom as a platoon leader with the 101st Airborne Division. In Iraq, he led a 41-man air assault infantry platoon in the 506th Infantry Regiment, and planned and performed daily combat patrols.[11] In December 2006, Cotton was promoted to first lieutenant. He was assigned as a platoon leader for the 3rd U.S. Infantry Regiment (The Old Guard) at Fort Myer, Virginia.[12] In October 2008, Cotton was deployed to eastern Afghanistan. He was assigned within the Train Advise Assist Command – East at its Gamberi forward operating base (FOB) in Laghman Province as the Operations Officer of a Provincial Reconstruction Team, where he planned daily counter-insurgency and reconstruction operations.[11] His 11-month deployment ended on July 20, 2009 and he returned from Afghanistan.[11] In July 2010, Cotton transferred to the United States Army Reserve. His military record shows his final discharge from the U.S. Army Reserve was in May 2013; he was awarded the Bronze Star Medal and earned a Ranger Tab, Combat Infantryman Badge, Parachutist Badge, Air Assault Badge, Afghanistan Campaign Medal, and Iraq Campaign Medal.[11][13][14] Letter to the New York Times[edit] In June 2006, while stationed in Iraq, Cotton gained international public attention after he wrote an open letter to the editor of The New York Times, accusing three journalists of violating "espionage laws" by publishing an article detailing a classified government program monitoring terrorists' finances. The New York Times did not publish the letter, but it was published on Power Line, a conservative blog that had been copied on the email.[15][16] In the letter, Cotton called for the journalists responsible for the newspaper article to be imprisoned for espionage. He asserted that the newspaper had "gravely endangered the lives of my soldiers and all other soldiers and innocent Iraqis here." The article was widely circulated online and reprinted in full in several newspapers.[17] In October 2006, The New York Times public editor Byron Calame reversed his previous position that supported the article, saying that the paper should not have published the story.[18] Political career (2013–present)[edit] Shortly after Cotton's Afghanistan deployment ended, his former boss at the Claremont Institute introduced Cotton to Chris Chocola, a former congressman and the president of Club for Growth, an influential Republican political action committee.[4] An attempt was made to draft Cotton for the 2010 United States Senate election in Arkansas to run against incumbent Democratic U.S. senator Blanche Lincoln. Cotton declined, believing he would be rushing a political candidacy.[19] Following his active duty service, Cotton served in the Army Reserve and did consulting work for McKinsey & Company,[4][20] before running for Congress in Arkansas' 4th congressional district following the retirement announcement of Democratic incumbent Mike Ross.[21][22] U.S. House of Representatives (2013-2015)[edit] See also: 2012 United States House of Representatives elections in Arkansas Cotton participating in a 2012 congressional debate at Southern Arkansas University In September 2011, the Arkansas Times editor, Max Brantley, criticized Cotton for an article that he wrote in The Harvard Crimson in 1998, in which he questioned the value of the Internet as a teaching tool in the classroom, referring to the internet as having "too many temptations" to be useful in schools and libraries. Cotton later stated that the internet had matured since he wrote the article in 1998.[23][24] Beth Anne Rankin, the 2010 Republican nominee, and John David Cowart, who carried the backing of the Louisiana businessman and philanthropist Edgar Cason, were the only other Republican candidates in the race after candidate Marcus Richmond dropped out in February 2012.[5] In the primary on May 22, 2012, Cotton won the Republican nomination, with 57.6% of the vote; in second place was Beth Ann Rankin who received 37.1% of the vote.[25] The Club for Growth endorsed Cotton.[26] Of the $2.2 million Cotton raised for that campaign, Club for Growth donors were responsible for $315,000 and were Cotton's largest supporters.[4][20] Cotton was also endorsed by Senator John McCain.[27] Cotton was supported by both the Tea Party movement and the Republican establishment.[28][29] In the general election on November 6, Cotton defeated state senator Gene Jeffress, 59.5% to 36.7%.[25] Cotton was the second Republican since Reconstruction Era of the United States to represent the 4th district. The first, Jay Dickey, held it from 1993 to 2001 — during the presidency of Bill Clinton, whose residence was in the district at the time.[30] On January 3, 2013, Cotton was sworn into the U.S. House of Representatives by Speaker John Boehner.[31] As a freshman, Cotton was considered a rising star in the Republican Party. Politico named him "most likely to succeed."[32][33] He quickly became a vocal opponent of the Obama administration's foreign and domestic policies. He voted for An Act to eliminate the 2013 statutory pay adjustment for Federal employees, which prevented a 0.5% pay increase for all federal workers from taking effect in February 2013.[34] Cotton voted against the 2013 Farm Bill over concerns about waste and fraud in Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program voting later that month to strip funding from food stamps.[35] He also voted against the revised measure, the Agricultural Act of 2014,[36] which expanded crop insurance and a price floor for rice farmers.[37][38] Cotton accused Obama of holding up a "false choice" between his framework deal on Iran's nuclear program and war. Cotton was also criticized in some media outlets for underestimating what successful military action against Iran would entail,[39] stating: "the president is trying to make you think it would be 150,000 heavy mechanized troops on the ground in the Middle East again as we saw in Iraq. That's simply not the case." Drawing a comparison to President Bill Clinton's actions in 1998 during the Bombing of Iraq (1998), he elaborated: "Several days' air and naval bombing against Iraq's weapons of mass destruction facilities for exactly the same kind of behavior. For interfering with weapons inspectors and for disobeying Security Council resolutions."[39][40] On July 21, 2015, Cotton and Mike Pompeo claimed to have uncovered the existence of secret side agreements between Iran and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) on procedures for inspection and verification of Iran's nuclear activities under the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action nuclear deal. Obama administration officials acknowledged the existence of agreements between Iran and the IAEA governing the inspection of sensitive military sites, but denied the characterization that they were "secret side deals", calling them standard practice in crafting arms-control pacts and arguing the administration had provided information about them to Congress.[41][42] Committee assignments[edit] United States House Committee on Financial Services United States House Financial Services Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit United States House Financial Services Subcommittee on Monetary Policy and Trade United States House Committee on Foreign Affairs United States House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa United States House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade U.S. Senate (2015–present)[edit] Cotton and Senator Jon Kyl speaking at Hudson Institute Senator Cotton and former Ambassador to the U.N. John R. Bolton at the 2015 Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) U.S. Secretary of Defense Ash Carter and Senators Joni Ernst, Daniel Sullivan, John McCain, Tom Cotton, Lindsey Graham, and Cory Gardner attending the 2016 International Institute for Strategic Studies Asia Security Summit in Singapore See also: 2014 United States Senate election in Arkansas On August 6, 2013, Cotton officially announced he would challenge Democratic incumbent Mark Pryor for his seat in the United States Senate.[43] Stuart Rothenberg of Roll Call called Pryor the most vulnerable Senator seeking re-election.[44] Cotton was endorsed by the conservative Club for Growth PAC,[45][46][47] Senator Marco Rubio,[48] the National Federation of Independent Business,[49] and former presidential candidate Mitt Romney, who campaigned for Cotton.[50][51] The Associated Press called the race for Cotton immediately after the polls closed;[52] he prevailed by a margin of 56.5%-39.4%.[53] Cotton was sworn into office on January 6, 2015.[54] During his term as Senator, Cotton has received multiple death threats. In 2018, Adam Albrett of Fairfax County, Virginia was arrested for "faxing death threats" against President Donald Trump and members of Congress, including Cotton. Police traced the fax to Albrett using the phone number listed in the fax header.[55] In October, 2019, James Powell, 43 and a resident of Arkansas, was charged by local authorities with "first-degree terroristic threatening" following an investigation by U.S. Capitol Police and the FBI. The felony charge carries a maximum six-year prison sentence and $10,000 fine. Arkansas Representative Rick Crawford, a Republican, was also threatened with death by Powell.[56][57] In January 2020, 78 year old Henry Edward Goodloe was sentenced to two years probation for sending a threatening letter and a package containing white powder to Cotton. Goodloe admitted to mailing an envelope containing white powder to Cotton’s office, with a note stating, “You ignored me. Maybe this will get your attention.” The Senate mail facility intercepted the letter, which included Goodloe’s home address, and alerted a hazardous response team which determined the powder was unbleached flour and starch.[58] Tenure[edit] Cassandra Butts nomination[edit] In February 2015, Obama renominated Cassandra Butts, a former White House lawyer, to be the United States ambassador to the Bahamas. However, Butts's nomination was blocked by several Republican senators. First, Senator Ted Cruz placed a blanket hold on all U.S. State Department nominees.[59] Cotton specifically blocked the nominations of Butts and ambassador nominees to Sweden and Norway after the Secret Service had leaked private information about a fellow member of Congress, although that issue was unrelated to those nominees. Cotton eventually released his holds on the nominees to Sweden and Norway, but kept his hold on Butts' nomination.[59] Butts told New York Times columnist Frank Bruni that she had gone to see Cotton about his objections to her nomination, and said Cotton had told her that because he knew that the president and Butts were friends, it was a way to "inflict special pain on the president", Bruni said. Cotton's spokeswoman did not dispute Butts' characterization. Butts died on May 26, 2016, still awaiting a Senate vote.[59] Potential roles in the Trump administration[edit] Further information: Cabinet of Donald Trump Cotton was mentioned as a possible candidate for United States Secretary of Defense in the Trump administration.[60] However, retired general James Mattis was chosen instead.[61] Cotton frequently met with Trump's staff during the transition period, and according to Steve Bannon, Cotton suggested John F. Kelly for the role of Secretary of Homeland Security.[8] In November 2017, The New York Times reported that Cotton was a potential choice to succeed CIA director Mike Pompeo, who was elevated to United States Secretary of State after President Trump 'soured' on the then-incumbent, Rex Tillerson.[62] In December 2018, Politico reported that Cotton was a potential choice to replace Jim Mattis as United States Secretary of Defense after Mattis announced his resignation for January 1, 2019.[63] Ultimately, Mark Esper was chosen to succeed Mattis on June 18, 2019.[64] Tom Cotton (left) with president Donald Trump and Republican senator David Perdue (right). Committee assignments[edit] Senator Cotton visits Air Defenders at Osan Air Base during his three-country tour to Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan United States Senate Committee on Armed Services United States Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Airland (Chair) United States Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Seapower United States Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Strategic Forces United States Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs United States Senate Banking Subcommittee on Economic Policy (Chair) United States Senate Banking Subcommittee on Housing, Transportation, and Community Development United States Senate Banking Subcommittee on National Security and International Trade and Finance United States Senate Special Committee on Aging United States Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Joint Economic Committee Caucuses[edit] Senate Republican Conference Political positions[edit] Domestic policy[edit] Corporate disclosure[edit] In June 2019, along with Democrats Mark Warner and Doug Jones and fellow Republican Mike Rounds, Cotton introduced the Improving Laundering Laws and Increasing Comprehensive Information Tracking of Criminal Activity in Shell Holdings (ILLICIT CASH) Act, a bill that would mandate shell companies disclose their real owners to the United States Department of the Treasury and update outdated federal anti-money laundering laws through bettering communications among law enforcement, regulatory agencies, the financial industry, and the industry and regulators of advanced technology.[65] Criminal justice reform[edit] Senator Cotton at First In The Nation Townhall, New Hampshire In 2016, Cotton said that the United States had an "under-incarceration problem", as opposed to a problem with over-incarceration.[66] Cotton said that reduced sentencing for felons would destabilize the United States, arguing that "I saw this in Baghdad. We’ve seen it again in Afghanistan."[66] In November 2018, while arguing against a bipartisan criminal justice reform bill, Cotton mistakenly said that there had been no hearings on the bill. PolitiFact noted that Cotton "ignored years of congressional debate and hearings on the general topics of the bill, as well as the consideration and bipartisan passage of largely similar bills at the House committee level, by the full House, and by the Senate Judiciary Committee."[67] Arguing against the bill in question, the FIRST STEP Act, Cotton asserted that "convicts of certain sex-related crimes could accrue credits making them eligible for supervised release or 'pre-release' to a halfway house". A spokesperson for Mike Lee rebutted that "just because a federal offense is not on the specific list of ineligible offenses doesn’t mean inmates who committed [a] non-specified offense will earn early release".[68] The bill passed 87–12 on December 18, 2018. Cotton voted against it.[69] Tom Cotton and Brett Kavanaugh in August 2018 Gun laws[edit] Cotton has an A rating from the National Rifle Association (NRA), which endorsed him during the 2014 election. The NRA's Chris W. Cox stated that "Tom Cotton will always stand up for the values and freedoms of Arkansas gun owners and sportsmen."[70] In response to the 2017 Las Vegas shooting, Cotton stated that he did not believe any new gun control legislation would have prevented the mass shooting from taking place.[71] In January 2019, Cotton was one of thirty-one Republican senators to cosponsor the Constitutional Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act, a bill introduced by John Cornyn and Ted Cruz that would grant individuals with concealed carry privileges in their home state the right to exercise this right in any other state with concealed carry laws while concurrently abiding by that state's laws.[72] Healthcare[edit] Cotton opposes the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare), saying in 2012 that "the first step is to repeal that law, which is offensive to a free society and a free people".[73][74] In April 2014, Cotton was one of 38 Republican lawmakers that signed an amicus curiae in support of Senator Ron Johnson's legal challenge against the United States Office of Personnel Management's ACA ruling.[75] Cotton was part of the group of 13 Republican Senators that drafted the Senate version of the American Health Care Act of 2017 (AHCA).[76] Immigration[edit] Cotton opposes amnesty or a path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants.[77] In July 2013, after the Senate's bipartisan Gang of Eight passed the Border Security, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration Modernization Act of 2013, an immigration reform proposal, House Republicans held a closed door meeting to decide whether to bring the bill to a vote.[78] Budget Committee chairman Paul Ryan spoke at one podium arguing for the bill's passage.[79] Cotton spoke at another podium arguing against the bill, even exchanging terse comments with Speaker Boehner.[78] Cotton noted that a tougher stance on immigration had done little to diminish Mitt Romney's electoral support among Hispanics in 2012 compared to John McCain's in 2008. The House decided to not consider the bill.[79] Cotton supported President Trump's 2017 Executive Order 13769 that prohibited immigration from seven predominantly Muslim countries.[80] On February 7, 2017, in the presence of President Trump, Cotton and Senator David Perdue (R-GA), jointly proposed a new immigration bill called the RAISE Act which would limit the family route or chain migration. The bill would set a limit on the number of refugees offered residency at 50,000 a year and would remove the Diversity Immigrant Visa. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and John McCain (R-AZ) both expressed opposition to the bill.[81][82] Cotton, a supporter of President Donald Trump on the issue of immigration, was at a meeting in which Cotton disputes an alleged attribution that described Haiti and African nations as "shithole countries".[83] Cotton and Senator David Perdue (R-GA) said in a joint statement that "we do not recall the President saying these comments specifically".[84][85] The Washington Post reported that Cotton and Perdue told the White House they heard "shithouse" rather than "shithole".[86] Sen. Cotton reiterated on CBS's "Face The Nation" interview "I certainly didn’t hear what Sen. Durbin has said repeatedly. Sen. Durbin has a history of misrepresenting what happens in White House meetings, though, so perhaps we shouldn’t be surprised by that,” Cotton added, “And I was sitting no farther away from Donald Trump than Dick Durbin was, and I know what Dick Durbin has said about the president's repeated statements is incorrect”.[87] In December 2018, Cotton placed a senatorial hold on H.R.7164 - A Bill to add Ireland to the E-3 Non-immigrant Visa Program.[88] The bill did not create new non-immigrant visas, but rather allowed Irish college graduates to apply for any surplus E-3 visas in Specialty Occupations, that had gone unused by Australians within their annual cap of 10,500.[89] The bi-partisan bill which had passed the House of Representatives on November 28, 2018 and had also received the backing of the Trump Administration did not reach the Senate floor for consideration as a consequence of Sen. Cotton's hold.[90] "Cease and desist" letter mailed from Senator Cotton's office Cotton's immigration positions have led to protests in his Washington D.C office. In January, 2018, five demonstrators were arrested for obstructing Cotton's office while they were protesting his position on Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals. They were released after paying a $50 fine.[91] In response to what Cotton's office has referred to as harassment, members of the "...liberal activist group Ozark Indivisible" received "cease and desist" letters. One member of the group admitted to using “an f-bomb or two” in conversation with Cotton's staffers. Another recipient of a letter allegedly called "...one of Cotton’s 19-year-old interns a “c–t.”[92][93] In February 2019, Cotton was one of sixteen senators to vote against legislation preventing a partial government shutdown. The bill also funded $1.375 billion to improve security along the U.S.-Mexico border, an amount far below the $5.7 billion requested by the Trump administration.[94] In June 2019, after President Trump announced a two-week delay for a plan involving the deportation of an estimated 2,000 migrant families as part of an attempt to give Congress a chance to work on immigration reform, Cotton stated his support for Trump's plan and questioned who the United States could deport if it was unable to "deport an illegal alien who has a final and legal order of removal adjudicated by an immigration judge".[95] Infrastructure[edit] In February 2019, Cotton was one of eleven senators to sign a letter to Energy Secretary Rick Perry and Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen urging them "to work with all federal, state and local regulators, as well as the hundreds of independent power producers and electricity distributors nation-wide to ensure our systems are protected" and affirming that they were "ready and willing to provide any assistance you need to secure our critical electricity infrastructure."[96] Minimum wage[edit] After not taking a position on minimum wage during his campaign, in September 2014, Cotton said he would vote, as a citizen, in favor of the Arkansas Minimum Wage Initiative, a November 2014 referendum to raise Arkansas's minimum wage from $6.25 an hour to $8.50 an hour by 2017. Cotton was criticized for failing to take a public position on the issue until public opinion was overwhelmingly in favor.[97][98] Social issues[edit] In June 2013, Cotton voted in favor of the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, a bill to ban abortions occurring 20 or more weeks after fertilization.[99] Cotton has stated that "I believe Roe v. Wade and Planned Parenthood v. Casey were wrongly decided."[100] He was one of 183 co-sponsors of the version of the Title X Abortion Provider Prohibition Act introduced in 2013.[101] Cotton has stated "I oppose the destruction of human embryos to conduct stem-cell research and all forms of human cloning."[100] In 2012, Cotton said, "Strong families also depend on strong marriages, and I support the traditional understanding of marriage as the union of one man and one woman. I also support the Defense of Marriage Act."[102] In 2013, Cotton voted against reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act, saying that the federal powers in the act were too broad. His website, at the time of the vote stated, "Violence against women is unacceptable, period."[102][103] In September 2013, Cotton was one of 103 co-sponsors of the Marriage and Religious Freedom Act.[104] In October 2015, Cotton was one of 24 co-sponsors of the Thin Blue Line Act, a federal bill that would impose the death penalty in the case of the killing of police officers.[105] After the violent incidents surrounding the 2017 Unite the Right rally, Cotton issued a statement condemning white supremacism.[106] In April 2019, Cotton described the Southern Poverty Law Center as being a "political hate group" and asked the IRS to check if the SPLC should retain its tax-exempt status.[107] In July 2019, along with Pat Toomey and Todd Young, Cotton introduced the Government Bailout Prevention Act, a bill that would prohibit any arm of the federal government including the Federal Reserve System and Treasury Department from paying or guaranteeing state and local obligations in the event that state or local government entities file bankruptcy, default on debts or are at risk of bankruptcy or default. Cotton said the bill "would ensure American taxpayers aren’t stuck with the tab for the spending binges of a few irresponsible politicians."[108] Student loans[edit] In August 2013, Cotton voted against the Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act of 2013, that sets interest rates on student loans to the 10-year Treasury note plus a varying mark up for undergraduate and graduate students.[109] Cotton preferred a solution that ended what he described as the "...federal-government monopoly on the student-lending business." His characterization referred to the provision of the Obama Care act that changed the way the federal government makes student loans.[110] Foreign policy[edit] US congressional delegation at Halifax International Security Forum 2014 Cotton's foreign policy views have been characterized as "hawkish".[111][112] During a February 5, 2015 Senate Armed Services Committee hearing, Cotton called for housing more prisoners at Guantanamo Bay instead of closing it. He also said of the prisoners in the camp "...every last one them can rot in hell, but as long as they don't do that they can rot in Guantanamo Bay".[113] In September 2016, Cotton was one of thirty-four senators to sign a letter to United States secretary of state John Kerry advocating for the United States using "all available tools to dissuade Russia from continuing its airstrikes in Syria" from an Iranian airbase near Hamadan "that are clearly not in our interest" and stating that there should be clear enforcement by the US of the airstrikes violating "a legally binding Security Council Resolution" on Iran.[114] In July 2017, Cotton voted in favor of the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act that grouped together sanctions against Russia, Iran and North Korea.[115] In July 2017, Cotton co-sponsored the bi-partisan Israel Anti-Boycott Act (S.270), which amended existing federal law that criminalized foreign-led boycotts of U.S. allies, by specifically prohibiting the support of foreign governments and organizations imposing a boycott on Israel. The proposal generated controversy as some interpreted the law as a restriction on activities by private citizens and potentially a violation of constitutional rights.[116][117] Others viewed it as a clarification of the existing Export Administration Act of 1979, in response to the 2016 United Nations Human Rights Council resolutions that called on corporations to re-assess business activities that may impact Palestinian human rights.[118] In December 2018, after President Trump announced the withdrawal of American troops in Syria, Cotton was one of six senators to sign a letter expressing concern for the move and their belief "that such action at this time is a premature and costly mistake that not only threatens the safety and security of the United States, but also emboldens ISIS, Bashar al Assad, Iran, and Russia."[119] In January 2019, Cotton was one of eleven Republican senators to vote to advance legislation intended to block President Trump's intent to lift sanctions against three Russian companies.[120] In August 2019, Cotton revealed he suggested to Trump and the Danish ambassador that the U.S. should buy Greenland.[121][122] Cotton supports U.S. withdrawal from the Open Skies agreement, which lets nations use special aircraft to monitor each other's military activities. In 2018, Cotton asserted that the agreement was outdated and that it favored the interests of Russia.[123] China[edit] In 2018, Cotton was a cosponsor of the Countering the Chinese Government and Communist Party's Political Influence Operations Act, a bill introduced by Marco Rubio and Catherine Cortez Masto that would grant the U.S. Secretary of State and the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) the authority to create an interagency task force with the purpose of examining attempts by China to influence the U.S. and key allies.[124] In August 2018, Cotton and 16 other lawmakers urged the Trump administration to impose sanctions under the Global Magnitsky Act against Chinese officials who are responsible for human rights violations in western China's Xinjiang region targeting the Uyghur ethnic minority.[125] They wrote in a bipartisan letter: "The detention of as many as a million or more Uyghurs and other predominantly Muslim ethnic minorities in "political reeducation” centers or camps requires a tough, targeted, and global response."[126] In February 2017, Cotton was part of a group of Senate Republicans that signed a letter to Speaker of the House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi requesting Pelosi invite President of Taiwan Tsai Ing-wen to address a joint meeting of Congress. The request came amid heightened tensions between the US and China and was seen as angering Chinese leadership if extended by Pelosi.[127] In May 2019, when asked about the impact of tariffs on farmers in Arkansas, Cotton admitted there would be "some sacrifices on the part of Americans, I grant you that, but I also would say that sacrifice is pretty minimal compared to the sacrifices that our soldiers make overseas that are fallen heroes that are laid to rest in Arlington make" and that farmers were willing to make sacrifices in order for the United States to fend off against Chinese attempts to displace the US globally.[128] In May 2019, Cotton was a cosponsor of the South China Sea and East China Sea Sanctions Act, a bipartisan bill reintroduced by Marco Rubio and Ben Cardin that was intended to disrupt China's consolidation or expansion of its claims of jurisdiction over both the sea and air space in disputed zones in the South China Sea.[129] In July 2019, Cotton and Democrat Chris Van Hollen were the primary sponsors of the Defending America's 5G Future Act, a bill that would prevent Huawei from being removed from the "entity list" of the Commerce Department without an act of Congress and authorize Congress to block administration waivers for U.S. companies to do business with Huawei. The bill would also codify President Trump's executive order from the previous May that empowered his administration to block foreign tech companies deemed a national security threat from conducting business in the United States.[130] In April 2020. Cotton said that Chinese students in the United States should be restricted to studying the Humanities and not allowed to obtain science-related degrees. In an interview with Fox News, Cotton said, "It is a scandal to me that we have trained so many of the Chinese Communist Party's brightest minds."[131][132] Coronavirus[edit] Cotton was the first member of Congress to warn the Trump administration about the Corona virus. On 28 January, he urged the Trump Administration to halt commercial flights from China to the United States due to the developing threat of the virus. On 31 January, spurred in part by Cotton's warnings, the Trump Administration banned most travel from China.[133][134][135][136] During a February 17, 2020 Fox News interview, Cotton said that the corona virus may have started in a "...biosafety level 4 super laboratory" in Wuhan, China. "Now we don’t have evidence that this disease originated there," Cotton said, "but because of China’s duplicity and dishonesty from the beginning we need to at least ask the question."[137] Subsequently, Cotton was widely criticized for promoting a "conspiracy theory" about the virus,[138] despite the fact that in 2018, US diplomats had sent warnings to Washington "...about safety and management weaknesses at the Wuhan Institute of Virology."[139][140] Weeks later, U.S. intelligence officials were investigating the possibility that the virus started in the lab identified by Cotton.[141][142][143] An April 16, 2020 CNN story said that "An intelligence official familiar with the government analysis said a theory US intelligence officials are investigating is that the virus originated in a laboratory in Wuhan, China, and was accidentally released to the public."[144] Cotton has said he would hold China "accountable" for what it had done.[145] In an April 22, 2020 Wall Street Journal column written by Cotton, he pointed out that the January 24th edition of the The Lancet reported that Chinese researchers had confirmed "... that the first known cases had no contact" with the Wuhan "wet market" many believed to be the source of the outbreak. Cotton went on to say that there was no evidence the market sold either bats or pangolins, believed to be the animals from which the virus jumped to humans, but both the WIV and the Wuhan Center for Disease Control and Prevention were nearby facilities conducting virus research using bats.[146] "This evidence is circumstantial, to be sure, but it all points toward the Wuhan Lab. Thanks to the Chinese coverup, we may never have direct, conclusive evidence -- intelligence rarely works that way -- but Americans can justifiably use common sense to follow the inherent logic of events to their likely conclusion."[146] Iran[edit] Cotton and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo in July 2018 In 2013, Cotton introduced legislative language to prohibit trade with relatives of individuals subject to U.S. sanctions against Iran. According to Cotton, this would include "a spouse and any relative to the third degree," such as, "parents, children, aunts, uncles, nephews, nieces, grandparents, great grandparents, grandkids, great grandkids." After Cotton's amendment came under harsh criticism regarding its constitutionality, he withdrew it.[147][148] In March 2015, Cotton wrote and sent a letter to the leadership of the Islamic Republic of Iran, signed by 47 of the Senate's 54 Republicans, casting doubt on the Obama administration's authority to engage in nuclear-proliferation negotiations with Iran.[149] The open letter was released in English as well as a poorly-translated Farsi version, which "read like a middle schooler wrote it", according to Foreign Policy.[150] Within hours, commentators[151][clarification needed] suggested that the letter prepared by Cotton constituted a violation of the Logan Act.[152][153] Questions also were raised as to whether it reflected a flawed interpretation of the Treaty Clause of the United States Constitution.[154] President Barack Obama mocked the letter, referring to it as an "unusual coalition" with the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps as well as an interference with the then-ongoing negotiations of a comprehensive agreement on the Iranian nuclear program.[155] In addition, Obama said, "I'm embarrassed for them. For them to address a letter to the Ayatollah – the Supreme Leader of Iran, who they claim is our mortal enemy – and their basic argument to them is: don't deal with our President, 'cause you can't trust him to follow through on an agreement ... That's close to unprecedented."[156] Iran's foreign minister, Javad Zarif, responded to the letter by saying "[the senators'] letter in fact undermines the credibility of thousands of such mere executive agreements that have been or will be entered into by the US with various other governments". Zarif pointed out that the nuclear deal is not supposed to be an Iran–US deal, but an international one, saying that "change of administration does not in any way relieve the next administration from international obligations undertaken by its predecessor in a possible agreement about Iran's peaceful nuclear program." He continued, "I wish to enlighten the authors that if the next administration revokes any agreement with the stroke of a pen, as they boast, it will have simply committed a blatant violation of international law."[157] Cotton defended the letter amid criticism that it undermined the president's efforts, "It's so important we communicated this message straight to Iran... No regrets at all... they already control Tehran, increasingly they control Damascus and Beirut and Baghdad and now Sana'a as well."[158][159][160] He continued to defend his action in an interview with MSNBC by saying, "There are nothing but hardliners in Iran. They've been killing Americans for 35 years. They kill hundreds of troops in Iraq. Now they control five capitals in the Middle East. There are nothing but hardliners in Tehran and if they do all those things without a nuclear weapon, imagine what they'll do with a nuclear weapon."[161] Cotton received extensive financial support from pro-Israel groups due to his opposition to the Iran nuclear deal and for his hawkish stance toward Iran. Several pro-Israel Republican billionaires who contributed millions of dollars to William Kristol's Emergency Committee for Israel spent $960,000 to support Cotton.[162] In July 2018, Cotton introduced the Iran Hostage Taking Accountability Act, a bill that would call for the president to compose a list of Iranians that were "knowingly responsible for or complicit in...the politically-motivated harassment, abuse, extortion, arrest, trial, conviction, sentencing, or imprisonment" of Americans and have those on the list face sanctions along with enabling the president to impose sanctions on their family members and bar them from entering the United States Cotton stated that Iran had not changed much since 1981 and called for Americans to avoid Iran and its borders as there were "many friendly countries in the region that you can visit where you'd be safer."[163] In May 2019, Cotton said that in the event of a war with Iran, the United States could easily win in "two strikes. The first strike and the last strike."[111] He said there would be a "furious response" by the United States if there was any provocation from Iran.[111] Russia[edit] On 13 January 2018, in an interview on conservative commentator Hugh Hewitt's radio show, Cotton said that he expects Russian officials to "lie and deny" about the poisoning of Sergei Skripal, an ex-Russian spy on British soil.[164] After the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom Theresa May gave Russia 24 hours to respond to the poison, Cotton said "I suspect the response will be the typical Russian response. They’ll lie and deny."[164] Cotton went on to suggest retaliatory measures that the U.K. and the U.S. could implement in response to Russia's alleged actions, including renewed sanctions on oil.[164] Personal life[edit] Cotton married attorney Anna Peckham in 2014. The couple have two children.[165] Their first child, a boy, was born on April 27, 2015.[166][167] Cotton is a member of the United Methodist Church.[168] Cotton has said that Walter Russell Mead, Robert D. Kaplan, Henry Kissinger, Daniel Silva, C.J. Vonn, and Jason Matthews are among his favorite authors.[169] Electoral history[edit] Arkansas's 4th Congressional District Republican Primary Election, 2012 Party Candidate Votes % +% Republican Tom Cotton 20,899 57.55% Republican Beth Anne Rankin 13,460 37.07% Republican John Cowart 1,953 5.38% Arkansas's 4th Congressional District Election, 2012 Party Candidate Votes % +% Republican Tom Cotton 154,149 59.53% Democratic Gene Jeffress 95,013 36.69% Libertarian Bobby Tullis 4,984 1.92% Green Joshua Drake 4,807 1.86% U.S. Senate Election in Arkansas, 2014 Party Candidate Votes % +% Republican Tom Cotton 478,819 56.50% Democratic Mark Pryor* 334,174 39.43% Libertarian Nathan LaFrance 17,210 2.03% Green Mark Swaney 16,797 1.98% Write-in votes Write-in votes 505 0.06% See also[edit] List of people from Arkansas List of United States Representatives from Arkansas List of United States Senators from Arkansas References[edit] ^ "Tom Cotton". Biographical Directory of the United States Congress. Retrieved November 5, 2018. ^ Lyons, Gene (October 9, 2014). "Tom Cotton wouldn't be anywhere without government dollars". Arkansas Times. ^ "New Arkansas Rep. Cotton Draws Spotlight; 113th Congress Sworn In". Times Record News. January 4, 2013. ^ a b c d e f g h Ball, Molly (September 17, 2014). "The Making of a Conservative Superstar". The Atlantic. ^ a b c Bolduc, Brian (October 7, 2011). "G.I. Tom". National Review. ^ Levy, Gabrielle (April 16, 2015). "Tom Cotton Takes On the World". U.S. News & World Report. ^ "COTTON, Tom". United States Congress. ^ a b Toobin, Jeffrey (November 13, 2017). "Is Tom Cotton the Future of Trumpism?". The New Yorker. ^ ROGIN, ALI (July 18, 2016). "Tom Cotton: Everything You Need to Know". ABC News. ^ Stern, Seth. "For Freshman Senator Tom Cotton, politics and patriotism are nothing new". Harvard Law Today. Retrieved September 7, 2018. ^ a b c d e "NATIONAL DEFENSE PAC today announces with extreme pride its endorsement of Congressman Thomas Cotton" (PDF) (Press release). National Defense PAC. October 6, 2014. ^ Cotton, Tom (May 31, 2017). "Congress must support Arlington expansion". Philadelphia Media Network. ^ Milbank, Dana (May 12, 2014). "Dana Milbank: For Tom Cotton, a military record is no magic bullet". The Washington Post. ^ "Tom Cotton Army Service Record". MuckRock. ^ Johnson, Scott (October 23, 2012). "A FATEFUL LETTER TO THE EDITOR OF THE TIMES". Power Line. ^ Leibovich, Mark (April 5, 2015). "Tom Cotton Is Not Mailing It In". The New York Times Magazine. The New York Times. ^ Baumann, Nick (November 10, 2011). "The GOP Candidate Who Wants Journos Jailed". Mother Jones. ^ Calame, Byron (October 22, 2006). "Can 'Magazines' of The Times Subsidize News Coverage?". New York Times. Retrieved May 25, 2010. ^ LoGiurato, Brett (August 12, 2013). "10 Things Everyone Should Know About Tom Cotton, The Arkansas Politician Who Should Scare The Hell Out Of Democrats". Business Insider. ^ a b Nordlinger, Jay (October 23, 2012). "Tom Cotton of Arkansas, Part II". National Review. ^ Joseph, Cameron (July 25, 2011). "Rep. Mike Ross to retire". The Hill. ^ Brantley, Max (July 25, 2011). "U.S. Rep. Mike Ross won't seek 2012 re-election". Arkansas Times. ^ Brantley, Max (September 1, 2011). "Tom Cotton learns value of Internet". Arkansas Times. ^ Minton, Michelle (September 26, 2016). "Tom Cotton's Last Minute Anti-Gambling Bill". Competitive Enterprise Institute. ^ a b "Arkansas's 4th Congressional District elections, 2012". Ballotpedia. ^ "CLUB FOR GROWTH PAC ENDORSES TOM COTTON FOR CONGRESS" (Press release). Club for Growth. February 14, 2012. ^ Miller, Joshua (May 3, 2012). "Arkansas: Tom Cotton Gets John McCain Endorsement". Roll Call. ^ "Tea Party Express Endorses Tom Cotton in Arkansas" (Press release). Tea Party Express. ^ Joseph, Cameron (July 31, 2013). "Cotton's decision to run for Senate gives GOP 'rock star' candidate in Arkansas". The Hill. ^ Merica, Dan (December 3, 2012). "Freshman's House office search foreshadows the legislator he might be". CNN. ^ Kranz, Michal (November 30, 2017). "Meet Tom Cotton, the Arkansas senator with Trump's ear who graduated from Harvard in 3 years and might become the next head of the CIA". Business Insider. ^ NOCERA, KATE (January 2, 2013). "The freshman most likely to ________". Politico. ^ Rubin, Jennifer (December 5, 2012). "Tom Cotton: No ordinary freshman congressman". The Washington Post. ^ "HR 273 – Eliminates the 2013 Statutory Pay Adjustment for Federal Employees – Voting Record". Project Vote Smart. ^ Huey-Burns, Caitlin (July 16, 2013). "Tom Cotton a Key House Voice on Immigration Reform". RealClearPolitics. ^ "House Floor Activities Legislative Day of January 29, 2014". House of Representatives. ^ Nixon, Ron (February 4, 2014). "Senate Passes Long-Stalled Farm Bill, With Clear Winners and Losers". The New York Times. (subscription required) ^ Liberto, Jennifer (February 4, 2014). "Senate passes farm bill". CNNMoney. ^ a b Montanaro, Domenico (April 8, 2015). "Tom Cotton: Military Action Against Iran Would Take Only 'Several Days'". NPR. ^ Kendall Breitman (April 8, 2015). "Sen. Tom Cotton says U.S. could pursue targeted attack on Iran". POLITICO. ^ Fabian, Jordan; Wong, Kristina (July 26, 2015). "White House launches Iran side deals counterattack". The Hill. ^ Schulberg, Jessica (December 19, 2016). "John Kerry's Confident The IAEA Can Handle Iran, But Congress Isn't Buying It". The Huffington Post. ^ Condon, Stephanie (August 6, 2013). "Republican Rep. Tom Cotton announces bid to challenge Sen. Mark Pryor, D-Ark". CBS News. ^ Rothenberg, Stuart (June 9, 2014). "Mark Pryor: Still This Cycle's Most Vulnerable Senator". Roll Call. ^ Gentilviso, Chris (August 7, 2013). "Tom Cotton 2014 Senate Run Gets Early Club For Growth Endorsement". The Huffington Post. ^ Judis, John (October 16, 2013). "The Shrinking Club for Growth". The New Republic. ^ Joseph, Cameron (August 7, 2013). "Club for Growth endorses Tom Cotton, launches ads in Arkansas Senate race". The Hill. ^ Strauss, Daniel (September 17, 2013). "Rubio Endorses Rep. Tom Cotton for Senate". Talking Points Memo. ^ Urban, Peter (July 1, 2014). "Small-business group endorses Cotton". Arkansas News. ^ Ramsey, David (August 21, 2014). "Mitt Romney endorses Tom Cotton". Arkansas Times. ^ Brantley, Max (August 20, 2014). "Mitt Romney to campaign for Asa Hutchinson and Tom Cotton; Democrats comment". Arkansas Times. ^ Glueck, Katie. "Cotton defeats Pryor in Arkansas". POLITICO. ^ https://results.enr.clarityelections.com/AR/53237/149792/Web01/en/summary.html ^ Kranz, Michal. "Meet Tom Cotton, the Arkansas senator with Trump's ear who graduated from Harvard in 3 years and might become the next head of the CIA". Business Insider. ^ MacFarlane, Scott. "Virginia Man Arrested for Sending Faxes Threatening Trump: Docs". NBC 4 Washington. Retrieved April 19, 2020. ^ Connolly, Griffin. "Arkansas man arrested for death threats against Sen. Tom Cotton, Rep. Rick Crawford". Roll Call. Retrieved April 19, 2020. ^ "Man jailed in Faulkner Co. accused of threatening Rep. Rick Crawford and Sen. Tom Cotton". Fox 16. Retrieved April 19, 2020. ^ "Arkansas man gets probation after mailing powder to senator". ABC 7. Retrieved April 19, 2020. ^ a b c Bruni, Frank (June 7, 2016). "An Obama Nominee's Crushed Hopes". The New York Times. ^ Restuccia, Andrew (November 18, 2016). "Donald Trump's Cabinet-in-waiting: What we know so far". Politico. Retrieved November 18, 2016. ^ Byrnes, Jesse (December 1, 2016). "Trump announces Mattis as Defense pick". Retrieved December 2, 2016. ^ Baker, Peter (November 30, 2017). "White House Plans Tillerson Ouster, to Be Replaced by Mike Pompeo, Within Weeks". New York Times. Retrieved November 30, 2017. ^ )O'Brien, Connor (December 20, 2018). "Trump next defense Secretary Mattis replacement". Politico. Retrieved December 20, 2018. ^ Trump, Donald J. (June 18, 2019). "....I thank Pat for his outstanding service and will be naming Secretary of the Army, Mark Esper, to be the new Acting Secretary of Defense. I know Mark, and have no doubt he will do a fantastic job!". @realDonaldTrump. Retrieved August 10, 2019. ^ Hosenball, Mark (June 10, 2019). "U.S. senators launch bill to broaden shell companies' disclosures". kfgo.com. ^ a b "Sen. Tom Cotton: U.S. has 'under-incarceration problem'". POLITICO. Retrieved November 15, 2018. ^ "Were there no hearings on bipartisan criminal justice bill?". @politifact. Retrieved November 23, 2018. ^ EVERETT, BURGESS; SCHOR, ELANA. "Cotton wields sex offender report to tank prisons bill". Politico. Retrieved December 1, 2018. ^ Levin, Marianne. "Senate approves Trump-backed criminal justice overhaul". Politico. Retrieved December 18, 2018. ^ "NRA Endorses Tom Cotton for U.S. Senate in Arkansas" (Press release). National Rifle Association. September 9, 2014. ^ Shelbourne, Mallory (October 3, 2017). "Cotton: Las Vegas shooter's weapon sounded like 'belt-fed machine gun'". The Hill. ^ "Sens. Cruz, Cornyn file Concealed-Carry Reciprocity Bill". kcbd.com. January 10, 2019. ^ "4th District hopefuls split on health care law". Associated Press. September 26, 2012. ^ Ramsey, David (April 14, 2014). "How Tom Cotton talks when he talks about Obamacare". Arkansas Times. ^ O'Keefe, Ed (April 24, 2014). "38 GOP lawmakers join Ron Johnson's Obamacare lawsuit". The Washington Post. (subscription required) ^ Bash, Dana; Fox, Lauren; Barrett, Ted (May 9, 2017). "GOP defends having no women in health care group". CNN. ^ "Tom Cotton on Immigration". On the Issues. ^ a b Costa, Robert (July 15, 2013). "Picking Tom Cotton: On immigration, a freshman speaks for the right flank of the House GOP". The National Review. ^ a b Lizza, Ryan (July 20, 2016). "Occupied Territory: The Republican élite struggles over whether to resist Trump or capitulate". The New Yorker. ^ Blake, Aaron (January 29, 2017). "Coffman, Gardner join Republicans against President Trump's travel ban; here's where the rest stand". The Denver Post. ^ "A new effort to narrow the route to permanent residency in America". The Economist. February 16, 2017. ^ Alvarez, Priscilla (August 21, 2017). "Can a Decades-Old Immigration Proposal Pass Under Trump?". The Atlantic. ^ Ali Vitali, Trump referred to Haiti and African nations as 'shithole' countries, NBCnews.com, January 12, 2017. ^ Ashley Killough, January 12, 2017, CNN, 2 Republican senators in Trump meeting say they don't recall 'shithole' comment "...We do not recall the President saying these comments specifically but what he did call out was the imbalance in our current immigration system,..." ^ Ruth Brown, January 12, 2017, New York Post, "GOP lawmakers 'do not recall' Trump's 'shithole' slur", Retrieved January 14, 2017, "...Republican Sens. David Perdue and Tom Cotton say they "don't recall" President Trump "specifically" smearing Haiti and African nations as "shitholes" ..." ^ Dawsey, Josh; Costa, Robert; Parker, Ashley (January 15, 2018). "Inside the tense, profane White House meeting on immigration". The Washington Post. ^ "Cotton hits Durbin for claims of Trump's 's---hole countries' comment". January 14, 2018. ^ "E3 bill dies thanks to Senator Tom Cotton and incredibly, an Irish journalist Neil Munro". IrishCentral.com. December 21, 2018. Retrieved December 22, 2018. ^ "What is the E3 visa and what does it mean to the Irish?". IrishCentral.com. December 4, 2018. Retrieved December 20, 2018. ^ "Irish E3 visas face further blow as another senator places hold on bill". IrishCentral.com. December 20, 2018. Retrieved December 20, 2018. ^ Besson, Eric. "5 protesters, including Arkansas immigrant, arrested outside Sen. Tom Cotton's D.C. office". Arkansas Democrat Gazette. Retrieved April 19, 2020. ^ Connolly, Griffin. "F-Bombs and C-Word Prompted Cotton Cease and Desist Letters". Roll Call. Retrieved April 19, 2020. ^ Max Brantley, January 18, 2018, Arkansas Times, Activists say Tom Cotton has issued do-not-call-or-write notice to some constituents. UPDATE. Such letters sent in 'extreme circumstances' says Cotton's office. ^ Carney, Jordain. "Senate approves border bill that prevents shutdown". The Hill. ^ "Cotton: 'Healthy skepticism warranted' when dealing with Democrats on immigration". The Hill. June 23, 2019. ^ Thomsen, Jacqueline (February 25, 2019). "Key senators say administration should ban Huawei tech in US electric grid". The Hill. ^ Bobic, Igor (September 5, 2014). "Tom Cotton Says He Will Vote For Minimum Wage Hike 'As A Citizen'". The Huffington Post. ^ Ramsey, David (September 28, 2014). "The not-so-principled stand of Tom Cotton on the minimum wage". Arkansas Times. ^ "House Vote 251 – Approves New Abortion Restrictions". The New York Times. ^ a b "Tom Cotton on Abortion". On the Issues. Retrieved January 19, 2018. ^ "H.R.217 - Title X Abortion Provider Prohibition Act". United States Congress. 2013. ^ a b "Tom Cotton on Civil Rights". On the Issues. Retrieved January 19, 2018. ^ Marcos, Cristina. "Woman recounts abuse in Democratic ad criticizing Tom Cotton". The Hill. Retrieved April 19, 2020. ^ "H.R.3133 - Marriage and Religious Freedom Act". United States Congress. September 19, 2013. ^ "S.2034 - Thin Blue Line Act". United States Congress. September 15, 2015. ^ "Cotton Statement on the Violence in Charlottesville" (Press release). United States Senate. August 13, 2017. ^ 🖉Times, Valerie Richardson The Washington (April 3, 2019). "Tom Cotton calls for IRS to investigate Southern Poverty Law Center's tax-exempt status". AP NEWS. ^ Randolph, Kevin (July 22, 2019). "Sens. Toomey, Young, Cotton introduce bill to prevent government bailouts". Pennsylvania Business Report. ^ Nawaguna, Elvina. "Congress finally votes to cut student loan interest rates". Reuters. Retrieved April 17, 2020. ^ Robertson, Lori. "Student Loan Stretching". FactCheck.org. Retrieved April 17, 2020. ^ a b c Axelrod, Tal (May 14, 2019). "Cotton: US could win war with Iran in 'two strikes'". TheHill. Retrieved May 18, 2019. ^ Willick, Jason (December 9–10, 2017). "A Foreign Policy for 'Jacksonian America'". The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved August 5, 2018. (subscription required) ^ February 5, 2015: Sen. Tom Cotton SASC Q&A on Guantanamo Bay facilities, retrieved August 20, 2019 ^ Kheel, Rebecca (September 19, 2016). "GOP pressures Kerry on Russia's use of Iranian airbase". The Hill. ^ "U.S. Senate: U.S. Senate Roll Call Votes 115th Congress - 1st Session". www.senate.gov. July 27, 2017. ^ Levitz, Eric (July 19, 2017). "43 Senators Want to Make It a Federal Crime to Boycott Israeli Settlements". Intelligencer. ^ "Cosponsors - S.720 - 115th Congress (2017-2018): Israel Anti-Boycott Act". www.congress.gov. March 23, 2017. ^ Michaelson, Jay. "Pay No Mind To The Fake Ruckus About a Phony Israel Anti-Boycott Law". Daily Beast. Retrieved April 17, 2020. ^ "Senators call on Trump administration to reconsider Syria withdrawal". The Hill. December 19, 2018. ^ "Senate advances measure bucking Trump on Russia sanctions". The Hill. January 15, 2019. ^ Field, Hunter; Lockwood, Frank E. (August 22, 2019). "U.S. Sen. Tom Cotton backs buying Greenland, says he floated idea to Trump, Danish ambassador". Arkansas Democrat-Gazette. ^ Sonmez, Felicia (August 22, 2019). "Sen. Tom Cotton says he mentioned buying Greenland to Trump, Danish ambassador". The Washington Post. The revelation came a day after President Trump called off a trip to Denmark because, he said, the country’s leader was not interested in selling Greenland to the United States. ^ "Trump Takes Aim at the 'Open Skies' Cold War Treaty With Russia". Wired. ISSN 1059-1028. Retrieved October 14, 2019. ^ Derby, Kevin. "Marco Rubio, Catherine Cortez Masto Take Aim at China in New Legislation". Sunshine State News. ^ "Chairs Lead Bipartisan Letter Urging Administration to Sanction Chinese Officials Complicit in Xinjiang Abuses". www.cecc.gov. Congressional-Executive Commission on China (CECC). ^ "China rejects US lawmakers' sanctions call over Muslim camps". Associated Press. August 30, 2018. ^ "Republican U.S. senators want Taiwan president to address Congress". Reuters. February 7, 2019. ^ Tillett, Emily (May 13, 2019). "Tom Cotton says sacrifice of Americans paying tariffs is "minimal" compared to those serving overseas". CBS News. ^ Ghosh, Nirmal (May 24, 2019). "US Bill reintroduced to deter China in South China, East China seas". The Straits Times. ^ Miller, Maggie (July 16, 2019). "Lawmakers introduce bill to block U.S. companies from doing business with Huawei". The Hill. ^ Re, Gregg. "Tom Cotton suggests Chinese students shouldn't be allowed to study sciences in the US". Fox News. Retrieved April 27, 2020. ^ Bowden, John. "Cotton suggests US shouldn't give visas to Chinese students to study science". The Hill. ^ John McCormack. "The Senator who saw the Coronavirus Coming". National Review. ^ Tom Cotton. "letter" (PDF). ^ Natasha Bertrand (March 31, 2020). "From distraction to disaster: How coronavirus crept up on Washington". Politico. Retrieved April 4, 2020. ^ Matthew Daly. "McConnell: Impeachment 'Diverted Attention' From Coronavirus". U.S. News. Retrieved April 4, 2020. ^ Fordham, Evrie. "China 'still lying' about coronavirus outbreak: Sen. Tom Cotton". Fox News. Retrieved April 17, 2020. ^ Stevenson, Alexandra (February 17, 2020). "Senator Tom Cotton Repeats Fringe Theory of Coronavirus Origins". The New York Times. ISSN 0362-4331. Retrieved March 13, 2020. ^ Ricon, Paul. "Coronavirus: Is there any evidence for lab release theory?". BBC News. Retrieved April 17, 2020. ^ Rogin, Josh. "State Department cables warned of safety issues at Wuhan lab studying bat coronaviruses". The Washington Post. Retrieved April 21, 2020. ^ Dilanian, Ken. "U.S. intel community examining whether coronavirus emerged accidentally from a Chinese lab". NBC News. Retrieved April 17, 2020. ^ Strobel, Warren P. "U.S. Intelligence Sifts Evidence for Origins of Coronavirus". The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved April 17, 2020. ^ Gazis, Olivia. "U.S. intelligence community still investigating origins of COVID-19 outbreak, including whether it was a lab accident". CBS News. Retrieved April 17, 2020. ^ Campbell, Josh. "US explores possibility that coronavirus spread started in Chinese lab, not a market". CNN. Retrieved April 17, 2020. ^ Choi, David. "Republican senator: It's time to hold China 'accountable' for the coronavirus". Business Insider. Retrieved March 13, 2020. ^ a b Cotton, Tom (April 22, 2020). "Coronavirus and the Laboratories in Wuhan" (Page A22). The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved April 26, 2020. ^ Waldman, Paul (March 11, 2015). "For Tom Cotton, letter to Iran is anything but a 'fiasco'". The Washington Post. ^ Carter, Zach (March 17, 2015). "Here's Why Republicans Love Tom Cotton's Letter To Iran". The Huffington Post. ^ Baker, Peter (March 9, 2015). "Angry White House and G.O.P. Senators Clash Over Letter to Iran". The New York Times. ^ "Sen. Tom Cotton's Farsi Version Of His Explosive Letter to Iranian Leaders Reads Like a Middle Schooler Wrote It". Foreign Policy. March 30, 2015. ^ Zeitz, Josh (March 12, 2015). "Iran, Tom Cotton and the Bizarre History of the Logan Act". Politico. ^ Waldman, Paul (March 9, 2015). "Republicans are beginning to act as though Barack Obama isn't even the president". The Washington Post. ^ Bump, Philip (March 9, 2015). "What an 18th century non-war with France has to do with the Senate's letter to Iran". The Washington Post. ^ Jaffe, Alexandra (March 11, 2015). "Obama, Iranian official slam GOP letter on deal". CNN. ^ "Obama mocks Republican letter to Iran over nuclear talks". BBC News. March 9, 2015. ^ Lavender, Paige (March 13, 2015). "Obama: 'I'm Embarrassed' For Republicans Who Sent Letter To Iran". The Huffington Post. ^ Zarif, Javad (March 9, 2015). "Dr. Zarif's Response to the Letter of US Senators". Ministry of Foreign Affairs (Iran). ^ "Freshman GOP Senator Cotton says no regrets about letter warning Iran about Nuclear Deterrent". Fox News. March 15, 2015. ^ "Face the Nation: March 15 Kerry, Cotton, Manchin". CBS News. March 15, 2015. ^ Guion, Payton (March 16, 2015). "Tom Cotton, US Senator, apparently does not know the capital of Iran". The Independent. ^ "Tom Cotton: I want complete nuclear disarmament". MSNBC. March 15, 2015. ^ Lipton, Eric (April 4, 2015). "GOP's Israel support deepens as political contributions shift". The New York Times. (subscription required) ^ Lockwood, Frank E. (July 20, 2018). "U.S. Sen. Tom Cotton's bill targets Iran over captives". Arkansas Democrat Gazette. ^ a b c Cotton: Russia will 'lie and deny' about British spy poisoning. 13 March 2018. The Hill. Retrieved 24 march 2020. ^ Brantley, Max (March 17, 2014). "Tom Cotton still mum on marriage details". Arkansas Times. ^ Cotton, Tom (April 28, 2015). "Hello, world! Since everyone is asking, my name is Gabriel". Twitter. ^ Gangitano, Alex (December 7, 2016). "Sen. Tom Cotton Welcomes Second Child". Roll Call. ^ "TOM COTTON ANNOUNCES U.S. SENATE CAMPAIGN" (Press release). Tom Cotton. August 6, 2013. ^ Takala, Rudy (June 27, 2016). "Tom Cotton: 'Deterrence, once lost, is very hard to regain'". The Washington Examiner. External links[edit] Official website Appearances on C-SPAN Biography at the Biographical Directory of the United States Congress Profile at Vote Smart Financial information (federal office) at the Federal Election Commission Legislation sponsored at the Library of Congress Tom Cotton at Ballotpedia Tom Cotton at Curlie U.S. House of Representatives Preceded by Mike Ross Member of the U.S. House of Representatives from Arkansas's 4th congressional district 2013–2015 Succeeded by Bruce Westerman Party political offices Vacant Title last held byTim Hutchinson Republican nominee for U.S. Senator from Arkansas (Class 2) 2014 Most recent U.S. Senate Preceded by Mark Pryor U.S. Senator (Class 2) from Arkansas 2015–present Served alongside: John Boozman Incumbent Honorary titles Preceded by Chris Murphy Baby of the Senate 2015–2019 Succeeded by Josh Hawley U.S. order of precedence (ceremonial) Preceded by James Lankford United States Senators by seniority 74th Succeeded by Steve Daines v t e Arkansas's delegation(s) to the 113th–present United States Congresses (ordered by seniority) 113th Senate: M. Pryor • J. Boozman House: R. Crawford • T. Griffin • S. Womack • T. Cotton 114th Senate: J. Boozman • T. Cotton House: R. Crawford • S. Womack • F. Hill • B. Westerman 115th Senate: J. Boozman • T. Cotton House: R. Crawford • S. Womack • F. Hill • B. Westerman 116th Senate: J. Boozman • T. Cotton House: R. Crawford • S. Womack • F. Hill • B. Westerman v t e Arkansas's current delegation to the United States Congress Senators John Boozman (R) Tom Cotton (R) Representatives (ordered by district) Rick Crawford (R) French Hill (R) Steve Womack (R) Bruce Westerman (R) v t e Current United States senators President: Pence (R) — President Pro Tempore: Grassley (R) AL: Shelby (R) Jones (D) AK: Murkowski (R) Sullivan (R) AZ: Sinema (D) McSally (R) AR: Boozman (R) Cotton (R) CA: Feinstein (D) Harris (D) CO: Bennet (D) Gardner (R) CT: Blumenthal (D) Murphy (D) DE: Carper (D) Coons (D) FL: Rubio (R) R. Scott (R) GA: Perdue (R) Loeffler (R) HI: Schatz (D) Hirono (D) ID: Crapo (R) Risch (R) IL: Durbin (D) Duckworth (D) IN: Young (R) Braun (R) IA: Grassley (R) Ernst (R) KS: Roberts (R) Moran (R) KY: McConnell (R) Paul (R) LA: Cassidy (R) Kennedy (R) ME: Collins (R) King (I) MD: Cardin (D) Van Hollen (D) MA: Warren (D) Markey (D) MI: Stabenow (D) Peters (D) MN: Klobuchar (D) Smith (D) MS: Wicker (R) Hyde-Smith (R) MO: Blunt (R) Hawley (R) MT: Tester (D) Daines (R) NE: Fischer (R) Sasse (R) NV: Cortez Masto (D) Rosen (D) NH: Shaheen (D) Hassan (D) NJ: Menendez (D) Booker (D) NM: Udall (D) Heinrich (D) NY: Schumer (D) Gillibrand (D) NC: Burr (R) Tillis (R) ND: Hoeven (R) Cramer (R) OH: Brown (D) Portman (R) OK: Inhofe (R) Lankford (R) OR: Wyden (D) Merkley (D) PA: Casey (D) Toomey (R) RI: Reed (D) Whitehouse (D) SC: Graham (R) T. Scott (R) SD: Thune (R) Rounds (R) TN: Alexander (R) Blackburn (R) TX: Cornyn (R) Cruz (R) UT: Lee (R) Romney (R) VT: Leahy (D) Sanders (I) VA: Warner (D) Kaine (D) WA: Murray (D) Cantwell (D) WV: Manchin (D) Moore Capito (R) WI: Johnson (R) Baldwin (D) WY: Enzi (R) Barrasso (R) (R) Republican: 53 (D) Democratic: 45 (I) Independent: 2 v t e Statewide elected officials and legislative leaders of Arkansas U. S. Senators John Boozman Tom Cotton State government Asa Hutchinson, Governor Tim Griffin, Lieutenant Governor John Thurston, Secretary of State Leslie Rutledge, Attorney General Dennis Milligan, Treasurer Andrea Lea, Auditor Tommy Land, Land Commissioner Senate Jonathan Dismang, President pro tempore Jim Hendren, Majority Leader Keith Ingram, Minority Leader House Matthew Shepherd, Speaker Mathew Pitsch, Majority Leader David Whitaker, Minority Leader Portals Access related topics Biography portal Conservatism portal Politics portal United States portal Find out more on Wikipedia's Sister projects Media from Commons Quotations from Wikiquote Source texts from Wikisource Data from Wikidata Authority control US Congress: C001095 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Tom_Cotton&oldid=953653911" Categories: 1977 births 21st-century American politicians American army personnel of the Iraq War American army personnel of the War in Afghanistan (2001–present) American male non-fiction writers American political writers American United Methodists McKinsey & Company people Arkansas lawyers Arkansas Republicans Federalist Society members Harvard Crimson alumni Harvard Law School alumni Living people Members of the United States House of Representatives from Arkansas Military personnel from Arkansas People from Dardanelle, Arkansas Republican Party United States senators Tea Party movement activists United States Army officers United States Army Rangers United States senators from Arkansas Writers from Arkansas Hidden categories: Pages containing links to subscription-only content Articles with short description Use American English from August 2017 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Use mdy dates from January 2016 Wikipedia articles needing clarification from January 2018 Official website not in Wikidata Articles with Curlie links Wikipedia articles with USCongress identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikiquote Wikisource Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages تۆرکجه Català Čeština Dansk Deutsch Ελληνικά Español فارسی Français Gaeilge 한국어 Italiano עברית ქართული Magyar مصرى Nederlands Norsk bokmål Polski Português Русский Simple English Svenska Українська 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 28 April 2020, at 10:34 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view