https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grassroots_fundraising
Grassroots fundraising - Wikipedia
Grassroots fundraising From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages) This article possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (December 2007) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) This article or section possibly contains synthesis of material which does not verifiably mention or relate to the main topic. Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page. (November 2012) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Grassroots fundraising" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (May 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Part of the Politics series Political campaigning Finance Grassroots fundraising Management Opposition research Consultation Message Advertising Canvassing Retail politics Election promise Get out the vote Lawn signs Post-truth politics Negative campaigning Attack ad Fearmongering Push poll Smear campaign Voter suppression Key people Candidate Campaign manager Campaign staff Politics portal v t e Grassroots fundraising is a common fundraising method used by political candidates, which has grown in popularity with the emergence of the Internet and its use by US presidential candidates like Howard Dean, Barack Obama, Ron Paul, and most recently Bernie Sanders. Grassroots fundraising is a way of financing their campaigns for candidates who don't have significant media exposure of front runner status, or who are perhaps in opposition to the powerful lobby groups which influence the political party nominating process. It often involves mobilizing grassroots support to meet a specific fundraising goal or sets a specific day for grassroots supporters to donate to the campaign. Grassroots fundraising can also be a method for organizations to get as many people as possible to give and strategically get people involved. This method encompasses the efforts to reach out to the community being served and gaining connections and resources for one's campaign.[1] Contents 1 Strategies of Grassroots Fundraising 1.1 Reaching Donors 1.2 Recurring Contributions 1.3 Mixing Advocacy and Grassroots Fundraising 1.4 Timely Campaigns 1.5 Easily Understood Data 1.6 Segmented Campaign Outreach 1.7 Focusing on a Single Campaign 2 History in the United States 2.1 2004 Democratic presidential primaries 2.2 2008 presidential primaries 3 See also 4 References 5 External links Strategies of Grassroots Fundraising[edit] There are several methods of undertaking grassroots fundraising, including: Reaching Donors[edit] Peer-to-peer fundraising growth has been promoted by the increased use of affiliations and donor networks. Amongst a younger peer group that views their age mates as role models who they can trust for advice. Peer networks have continued to expand in many ways, extending towards the traditional door-to-door or solicitation at the places of work. Grassroots in the modern age involves extensive use of e-mail communication, internet websites, and social media for monetary support. Recurring Contributions[edit] Non-profit donors benefit effectively from a system that contributes monthly. Accepting little amounts can reduce the absolute financial burden and anxiety that a donor experiences, yet amounting to large amounts over time. Mixing Advocacy and Grassroots Fundraising[edit] Most people prefer to support in different ways hence this strategy provides them with multiple calls-to-action in the campaign communications. For example, a campaign was done from the international Rescue Committee to reach out to their supporters as a response to presidents Donald Trump's refugee ban. They gave their supporters a variety to get into the campaign: Advocacy: to tell the president to end the refugee ban. Fundraising: Donate to help support the refugee family relocation fees. Timely Campaigns[edit] These aspects go hand in hand with the present events and the news cycle. Research has shown that the content are most viral if the message makes people angry.[2] normally the call-to-action and campaign should be: Specific Inspiring Timely Urgent Easily Understood Data[edit] Understanding what inspires the supporters is key to engaging effectively with them. Such information when targeted to them causes support gained from them to improve, the opportunities they'd enjoy and the kinds of communications they prefer. Some demographics such as gender and age are easy to understand while others are not. Therefore one should keep track of data as much as possible. Ultimately, this strategy allows you to understand what is best for the supporters. Segmented Campaign Outreach[edit] Since not all of the campaign messages should be sent to every supporter group. Therefore, the organizations data can be used to segment[3] the supporters into sensible groups. Focusing on a Single Campaign[edit] There are very many legislative actions taken every year (more than 1.5 million). Therefore there is the need to be picky when it comes to advocacy and grassroots campaigns. History in the United States[edit] In the 2000 elections, 66.1% of campaign contributions of $200 or less came from American households earning less than $100,000, who make 86.6% of the general population, but only 14.3% of the contributions over $200 come from these households.[4] 2004 Democratic presidential primaries[edit] In 2004, presidential candidate Howard Dean built up his campaign around grassroots fundraising.[5] In an interview with Jeff Howe, Dean described a $2,000-per-plate fundraising lunch organized by Vice President Dick Cheney for George W. Bush's re-election. In response, Dean challenged his supporters to come to their computers with him "for lunch". Dean was able to match the amount raised by Cheney's fundraiser. He remarked, on his use of the Internet to raise funds for his campaign, "The Internet isn't magic, it's just a tool that can be used to do things differently."[6] 2008 presidential primaries[edit] Main article: Fundraising for the 2008 United States presidential election According to Spencer A. Overton, a professor at George Washington University, Obama's presidential campaign received the most grassroots fundraising of presidential candidates in the first Quarter 2007 based on contributions under $200 with $5.77 million, more than double the nearest candidate, John McCain, who got $2.54 million. Out of Obama's quarter fundraising total, 22% came from contributions under $200 with McCain again second at 19%. However, candidates outside the top tier received larger portions of their funds in contributions under $200 with Tancredo at 78%, Brownback 61%, Paul 39% and Kucinich at 68%.[4] In the 2008 Republican primaries, presidential candidate Ron Paul has made significant use of the Internet to organize grassroots fundraising efforts. His campaign is unique in seeing many grassroots fundraising events begin completely independent of the campaign.[7] The most notable of these was the November 5, 2007 "moneybomb", spread virally through forums like YouTube and Myspace. It managed to earn Paul $4.2 million in one day, breaking the online fundraising record as well as raising more than any other Republican candidate in the election. Ed Rollins, the manager of Ross Perot's 1992 presidential campaign, said of Paul's grassroots support, "What he's done – what his supporters have done – is astonishing. You can't dismiss his anti-war vote. You can't dismiss the power of one man standing up with a powerful message. I'll tell you, I've been in politics for 40 years, and these days everything I've learned about politics is totally irrelevant because there's this uncontrollable thing like the Internet. Washington insiders don't know what to make of it."[8] See also[edit] Political finance Campaign finance Political donations in Australia Federal political financing in Canada Party finance in Germany Political funding in Japan Political funding in the United Kingdom Campaign finance in the United States References[edit] ^ Moral. "the revolution will not be funded" (PDF). ^ Shaer, Matthew. "What Emotion Goes Viral the Fastest?". Smithsonian. Retrieved 2018-05-03. ^ "Amazing Segmentation Insights from an Advocacy Campaign". REQ. 2017-03-07. Retrieved 2018-05-03. ^ a b Spencer Overton (2007-04-17). "Obama Leads Grassroots Fundraising". blackprof.com. Archived from the original on 2013-11-02. Retrieved 2007-12-19. ^ "Howard Dean Ends His Campaign for President". PBS. 2004-02-18. Retrieved 2007-12-09. ^ Jeff Howe (September 2003). "The Candidate - Howard Dean". Interview. Wired. Retrieved 2007-12-07. ^ Byron Wolf Z. (2007-11-06). "Who are Ron Paul's Donors?". ABC News. Retrieved 2007-12-09. ^ Vargas, Jose Antonio (November 6, 2007). "Paul's Money-Bomb Throwers". Washington Post "The Trail" political blog. Archived from the original on July 19, 2008. Retrieved 2007-11-30. External links[edit] Mountain View, Fundraising for Community Groups: Lessons Learned at Gather Together 2003 The Chronicle of Philanthropy, A Guru of Grass-Roots Fund Raising Takes On a New Role [1] v t e Political finance Terms Campaign finance Corporate donations "Follow the money" Grassroots fundraising Party broadcast Party funding Party subsidies By country Australia Austria Canada Germany Party foundation Ireland Israel Japan Netherlands New Zealand Sweden United Kingdom United States Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Grassroots_fundraising&oldid=949680953" Categories: Community organizing Political funding Elections Fundraising Hidden categories: Articles that may contain original research from December 2007 All articles that may contain original research Articles that may contain original research from November 2012 Articles needing additional references from May 2018 All articles needing additional references Articles with multiple maintenance issues Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages العربية Edit links This page was last edited on 7 April 2020, at 22:04 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view