https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Darrell_Castle
Darrell Castle - Wikipedia
Darrell Castle From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Darrell Castle Personal details Born Darrell Lane Castle (1948-10-11) October 11, 1948 (age 71) Kingsport, Tennessee, U.S. Political party Constitution Spouse(s) Joan Weil Children 1 Residence Memphis, Tennessee, U.S. Alma mater East Tennessee State University (BS) University of Memphis (JD) Website Campaign website Military service Allegiance United States Branch/service United States Marine Corps Rank First lieutenant Darrell Lane Castle (born October 11, 1948) is an American politician and attorney from Memphis, Tennessee. He was the Constitution Party's nominee for Vice President of the United States in the 2008 presidential election and for President in the 2016 presidential election.[1][2] As the presidential nominee, Castle received 202,348 votes, and placed sixth nationwide. Contents 1 Early life and education 2 Law career 3 Political involvement 3.1 2016 presidential campaign 4 Political positions 5 References 6 External links Early life and education[edit] Castle grew up in Kingsport, Tennessee. He attended Ketron High School and East Tennessee State University (ETSU), graduating in 1966 and 1970, respectively. At ETSU, he earned a B.S. degree, double-majoring in political science and history. Castle then became a commissioned officer in the U.S. Marine Corps, serving for four years and attaining the rank of first lieutenant.[3] After his discharge, he returned to ETSU and began his graduate study of history. He then attended the law school at Memphis State University and earned a J.D. in 1979. Castle has served as a deacon and deacon chairman in his local church.[4] In 1998, he and his wife founded Mia’s Children Foundation, a Christian mission in Bucharest, Romania which ministers to homeless Romani children.[4] Law career[edit] Upon receiving his law degree in Memphis, Castle became an attorney. In 1984, he opened a private firm which later grew into Darrell Castle and Associates. Since then, Castle has opened firms in Milwaukee, Detroit, and Kansas City, Missouri. His firms focus on consumer bankruptcy and personal injury, but also represent clients in the areas of social security, disability, and workers' compensation.[5] Political involvement[edit] This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Darrell Castle" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (November 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) At the 2008 Constitution Party National Convention in Kansas City, Missouri, Baptist pastor Chuck Baldwin defeated former Assistant Secretary of State for International Organization Affairs Alan Keyes to win the party's nomination. The party then nominated Castle to the ticket as its vice presidential candidate. Baldwin had been the Constitution Party nominee for Vice President in 2004. At the 2012 Constitution Party National Convention in Nashville, Tennessee, Castle declared his candidacy for the party's presidential nomination one day prior to the nomination vote, citing requests from several delegates that he seek the nomination.[6] He finished as runner-up to former United States Congressman Virgil Goode, who won the nomination on the first ballot.[7] Castle is the former National Vice-Chairman of the Constitution Party. 2016 presidential campaign[edit] Main article: Darrell Castle 2016 presidential campaign 2016 U.S. presidential election Timeline General election debates Parties Polling national statewide by demographics international Newspaper endorsements primary general Russian interference Media coverage Social media International reactions Electors Recounts Faithless electors Republican Party Primaries Candidates Debates and forums Polling national statewide straw polls Endorsements Results Nominee VP candidate selection Convention Democratic Party Primaries Candidates Debates and forums Polling national statewide straw polls Endorsements Results Nominee VP candidate selection Convention Superdelegates Minor parties Third party and independent candidates Libertarian Party primaries debates nominee convention Green Party primaries debates nominee convention Constitution Party primaries nominee Reform Party primaries nominee American Solidarity Party Maturen Independents McMullin Related races House Senate Governors ← 2012 2016 2020 → v t e Castle was a candidate for the Constitution Party's 2016 presidential nomination, but withdrew his candidacy in January 2016 because of unspecified health concerns.[8] However, on the eve of the 2016 nominating convention, Richard Winger of Ballot Access News reported that Castle had re-entered the nomination process.[9] On April 16, 2016, Castle secured the presidential nomination for the Constitution Party.[10] He vowed, if elected, to get the United States out of the United Nations and NATO.[10] "Our borders are worth defending. If we can secure the borders of Korea and Germany, then we can secure the borders of the United States", said Castle.[11] He made no reference to previous health concerns.[11] Castle's campaign received endorsements from Chuck Baldwin,[12] Glenn Beck and the Georgia Right to Life PAC.[13] As of June 30, 2016, Castle had raised $10,289.[14] Political positions[edit] This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Darrell Castle" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (November 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) In an interview with Liberty Hangout, Castle has said he is more libertarian than 2016 Libertarian presidential nominee Gary Johnson.[15] He describes himself as pro-life,[15] and opposes federal funding of Planned Parenthood.[16] Castle supports funding of space exploration.[17] He opposes the war on drugs.[15] When it comes to prostitution, gambling, smoking, polygamous relationships, or any other activities made by consenting adults, Castle says he sees no role for the federal government to get involved.[15] He wants decriminalization of cannabis use, however opposes full legalization.[17] He favors securing the borders.[15] He has described his foreign policy views as non-interventionist.[15] He favors the United States withdrawing from the United Nations, NATO, TPP, NAFTA, CAFTA-DR, GATT, and WTO. He favors ending the Federal Reserve.[15] On June 12, 2016, Castle directly indicated a number of his political positions on the website iSideWith, which seeks to match voters with the candidates whose positions most closely match users' policy preferences as determined by a multiple-choice survey.[17] Castle presents himself as pro-gun and pro-Second Amendment, indicating that he believes there should not be "more restrictions on the current process of purchasing a gun" and is against banning individuals on the no-fly list from "purchasing guns and ammunition." While being completely opposed to it morally, Castle explicitly indicated that same-sex marriage is among the consensual activities in which he believes the government should not be involved. He opposes compulsory vaccination, and has endorsed the requirement of GMO labeling, stating that "people have a right to know what is in their food". He is against Common Core standards. He believes that felons should be allowed to vote, "but only after completing their sentences or parole/probation". He favors photographic voter identification requirements as a means of preventing voter fraud. Castle has expressed opposition to the retirement of solitary confinement for juvenile prisoners, on the grounds that the practice "is necessary for violent criminals who are a danger to themselves and other inmates". He believes that constitutional rights extend to foreign nationals suspected of terrorism, but only "inside the United States and not abroad".[citation needed] Castle believes "physically and mentally capable adults on welfare" should be required to work. However, he opposes drug tests for welfare recipients as an infringement of privacy. He has expressed opposition to any government regulation of employee compensation by private businesses. He does not believe that illegal immigrants should have access to government healthcare or in-state tuition rates. He is against the Affordable Care Act. He opposes governmental environmental regulations.[citation needed] Castle opposes term limits for members of Congress, believing that elections suffice to test the effectiveness of officeholders.[17] References[edit] ^ Winger, Richard (April 26, 2008). "Darrell Castle is Constitution Party Vice-Presidential Nominee". Ballot Access News. Retrieved November 12, 2008. ^ Lesiak, Krzyszof (April 16, 2016). "Darrell Castle wins the Constitution Party's presidential nomination". Independent Political Report. Retrieved April 16, 2016. ^ "As Veterans Day Approaches, the Constitution Party salutes its own and all Americans who have served in our nation's military forces!". Constitution Party National Committee. November 10, 2006. Archived from the original on November 13, 2008. Retrieved November 12, 2008. ^ a b "Who is Darrell Castle?". The Castle Report. Retrieved April 25, 2016. ^ "Memphis Bankruptcy Attorneys & Personal Injury Lawyers". darrellcastle.com. Retrieved April 24, 2016. ^ "NEWS FLASH: Darrell Castle to Seek Constitution Party Nomination". Independent Political Report. April 20, 2012. ^ "Virgil Goode Wins Constitution Party Nomination on First Ballot, Picks VP Choice". Independent Political Report. April 21, 2012. ^ Staff (January 6, 2016). "Darrell Castle Withdraws from Constitution Party Presidential Nomination Race". Ballot Access News. Retrieved August 3, 2016. ^ "Joe Miller Decides Not to Seek Constitution Party Presidential Nomination". ballot-access.org. Ballot Access News. April 12, 2016. Retrieved April 13, 2016. ^ a b Agencies. "US: Darrell Castle named Constitution Party candidate". www.mwcnews.net. Archived from the original on April 23, 2016. Retrieved April 24, 2016. ^ a b Mills, Glen. "The Constitution Party hosts national convention in Salt Lake City". GOOD4UTAH. Retrieved April 24, 2016. ^ "Endorsements". Castle 2016.com. Retrieved August 24, 2016. ^ "Endorsements – GRTL PAC", Georgia Right to Life PAC; retrieved July 2, 2016. ^ "Committee/Candidate Details". Fec.gov. Retrieved August 3, 2016. ^ a b c d e f g "Constitution Party Candidate, Darrell Castle, Says He's More Libertarian Than Gary Johnson". Liberty Hangout. July 2, 2016. Retrieved August 3, 2016. ^ "Campaign Platform". Castle 2016. April 16, 2016. Retrieved August 3, 2016. ^ a b c d "I Side With". I Side With. June 12, 2016. Retrieved August 26, 2016. External links[edit] Darrell Castle for President 2016 Presidential Campaign Official Site Law Offices of Darrell Castle and Associates Law Firm Website Appearances on C-SPAN Party political offices Preceded by Chuck Baldwin Constitution nominee for Vice President of the United States 2008 Succeeded by Jim Clymer Preceded by Virgil Goode Constitution nominee for President of the United States 2016 Most recent v t e (2004 ←) 2008 United States presidential election (→ 2012) 2008 United States elections Candidates Comparison Debates Congressional support Fundraising Ballot access Timeline Super Tuesday Potomac primary Super Tuesday II General polls Statewide general polls International polls International reaction Democratic Party Convention Primary polls General polls Debates Primaries Primary results Superdelegates Democratic candidates Nominee Barack Obama campaign positions endorsements Republican VP nominee Joe Biden positions Other candidates: Evan Bayh campaign Joe Biden campaign positions Hillary Clinton campaign positions endorsements Chris Dodd campaign John Edwards campaign positions Mike Gravel campaign Dennis Kucinich campaign Bill Richardson campaign Tom Vilsack campaign Republican Party Convention Primary polls General polls Debates Political positions Primaries Primary results Republican candidates Nominee John McCain campaign positions endorsements Democratic VP nominee Sarah Palin candidacy positions Other candidates: Sam Brownback John H. Cox Jim Gilmore campaign Rudy Giuliani campaign positions Mike Huckabee campaign positions Duncan L. Hunter campaign Alan Keyes campaign Ray McKinney Ron Paul campaign positions Mitt Romney campaign positions Tom Tancredo campaign Fred Thompson campaign Tommy Thompson campaign Draft movements Democratic Party Al Gore Mark Warner (movement) Republican Party Newt Gingrich Condoleezza Rice (movement) Independent Michael Bloomberg (movement) Third party and independent candidates Constitution Party Convention Nominee Chuck Baldwin (campaign) VP nominee Darrell Castle Candidates Daniel Imperato Alan Keyes campaign Green Party Convention Nominee Cynthia McKinney campaign positions VP nominee Rosa Clemente Candidates Elaine Brown Jesse Johnson Kent Mesplay Kat Swift Libertarian Party Convention Nominee Bob Barr campaign positions VP nominee Wayne Allyn Root Candidates Mike Gravel campaign Daniel Imperato Michael Jingozian Steve Kubby Wayne Allyn Root Mary Ruwart Doug Stanhope America's Independent Party Nominee Alan Keyes (campaign) VP nominee Brian Rohrbough Boston Tea Party Nominee Charles Jay Objectivist Party Nominee Tom Stevens Peace and Freedom Party Nominee Ralph Nader campaign VP nominee Matt Gonzalez Candidates: Gloria La Riva Cynthia McKinney campaign Brian Moore campaign Prohibition Party Nominee Gene Amondson Reform Party Nominee Ted Weill VP nominee Frank McEnulty Socialism and Liberation Party Nominee Gloria La Riva VP nominee Eugene Puryear Socialist Party Nominee Brian Moore (campaign) VP nominee Stewart Alexander Candidates Eric Chester Socialist Workers Party Nominee Róger Calero Alternate nominee James Harris VP nominee Alyson Kennedy Independent / Other Jeff Boss Stephen Colbert Earl Dodge Bradford Lyttle Frank Moore Joe Schriner Jonathon Sharkey Other 2008 elections: House Senate Gubernatorial v t e (2008 ←) 2012 United States presidential election (→ 2016) Fundraising National polls Statewide polls (pre-2012, early 2012) Timeline General election debates Newspaper endorsements International reactions Hurricane Sandy Democratic Party Convention Primaries Candidates Incumbent nominee Barack Obama campaign endorsements positions Incumbent VP nominee Joe Biden positions Challengers Bob Ely Keith Judd Warren Mosler Darcy Richardson Vermin Supreme Randall Terry John Wolfe Republican Party Convention Primaries Debates Statewide polls National polls Straw polls Candidates Nominee Mitt Romney campaign endorsements positions VP nominee Paul Ryan positions Candidates Michele Bachmann campaign Herman Cain campaign positions Mark Callahan Jack Fellure Newt Gingrich campaign positions Stewart Greenleaf Jon Huntsman campaign Gary Johnson campaign Fred Karger Andy Martin Thaddeus McCotter campaign Jimmy McMillan Roy Moore Ron Paul campaign positions Tim Pawlenty campaign Rick Perry campaign positions Buddy Roemer campaign Rick Santorum campaign Libertarian Party Convention Candidates Nominee Gary Johnson campaign VP nominee Jim Gray Candidates R. J. Harris Carl Person Sam Sloan R. Lee Wrights Green Party Convention Primaries Candidates Nominee Jill Stein campaign VP nominee Cheri Honkala Candidates Stewart Alexander Roseanne Barr Other third-party and independent candidates American Independent Party Nominee Tom Hoefling Candidates Wiley Drake Virgil Goode campaign Edward C. Noonan Laurie Roth American Third Position Party Nominee Merlin Miller VP nominee Virginia Abernethy Constitution Party Convention Nominee Virgil Goode (campaign) VP nominee Jim Clymer Candidates Darrell Castle Laurie Roth Robby Wells Freedom Socialist Party Nominee Stephen Durham Grassroots Party Nominee Jim Carlson Justice Party Nominee Rocky Anderson VP nominee Luis J. Rodriguez Socialism and Liberation Nominee Peta Lindsay Peace and Freedom Party Nominee Roseanne Barr VP nominee Cindy Sheehan Candidates Stewart Alexander Rocky Anderson Stephen Durham Peta Lindsay Prohibition Party Nominee Jack Fellure Candidates James Hedges Reform Party Nominee Andre Barnett Candidates Laurence Kotlikoff Darcy Richardson Buddy Roemer campaign Robby Wells Socialist Equality Party Nominee Jerry White Socialist Workers Party Nominee James Harris Socialist Party Nominee Stewart Alexander (campaign) VP nominee Alejandro Mendoza Independents and others Objectivist Party Tom Stevens Independents Lee Abramson Randy Blythe Jeff Boss Robert Burck Terry Jones Joe Schriner Michael Bloomberg draft Other 2012 elections: House Senate Gubernatorial v t e (2012 ←) 2016 United States presidential election (→ 2020) 2016 United States elections Fundraising Political positions Polls national demographically statewide pre 2016 Jan–Aug 2016 international Social media Timeline General election debates Newspaper endorsements primary Vote pairing Recounts Russian interference Faithless electors Republican Party Debates and forums Endorsements Primaries Results Convention Polls national statewide straw Candidates (VP) Nominee Donald Trump campaign endorsements primary positions protests Republican opposition VP nominee: Mike Pence Other candidates Jeb Bush campaign positions Ben Carson campaign Chris Christie campaign Ted Cruz campaign endorsements positions Mark Everson Jack Fellure Carly Fiorina campaign Jim Gilmore campaign Lindsey Graham campaign Mike Huckabee campaign positions Bobby Jindal campaign John Kasich campaign endorsements Josue Larose Dennis Michael Lynch Andy Martin Jimmy McMillan George Pataki campaign Rand Paul campaign positions Rick Perry campaign positions Marco Rubio campaign positions Rick Santorum campaign Scott Walker campaign Democratic Party Political positions Endorsements Debates and forums Primaries Results Superdelegates Convention Polls national statewide straw Candidates (VP) Nominee Hillary Clinton campaign endorsements political non-political positions Democratic opposition VP nominee: Tim Kaine Other candidates Jeff Boss Harry Braun Lincoln Chafee campaign Rocky De La Fuente campaign Paul T. Farrell Jr. Keith Judd Lawrence Lessig campaign Martin O'Malley campaign Bernie Sanders campaign endorsements positions Sam Sloan Michael Steinberg Vermin Supreme Jim Webb campaign Robby Wells Willie Wilson John Wolfe Jr. Libertarian Party Debates and forums Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Gary Johnson campaign endorsements positions VP nominee: Bill Weld Other candidates John McAfee Austin Petersen Darryl W. Perry Vermin Supreme Green Party Debates and forums Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Jill Stein campaign endorsements VP nominee: Ajamu Baraka Other candidates Darryl Cherney Sedinam Kinamo Christin Moyowasifza Curry Constitution Party Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Darrell Castle campaign VP nominee: Scott Bradley Other candidates Tom Hoefling Independent Better for America Evan McMullin campaign endorsements Mindy Finn Other third-party and independent candidates American Delta Party Rocky De La Fuente campaign VP nominee: Michael Steinberg American Party of South Carolina Peter Skewes American Solidarity Party Mike Maturen America's Party Wiley Drake James Hedges Tom Hoefling Nutrition Party Rod Silva Party for Socialism and Liberation Gloria La Riva VP nominee: Eugene Puryear* Peace and Freedom Party Gloria La Riva VP nominee: Dennis Banks Other candidates Monica Moorehead Jill Stein Prohibition Party James Hedges Reform Party Rocky De La Fuente campaign VP nominee: Michael Steinberg Other candidates Darcy Richardson Socialist Action Jeff Mackler Socialist Equality Party Jerry White Socialist Party USA Mimi Soltysik campaign VP nominee: Angela Nicole Walker Socialist Workers Party Alyson Kennedy VP nominee: Osborne Hart United States Pacifist Party Bradford Lyttle Workers World Party Monica Moorehead Independent candidates Laurence Kotlikoff * : These candidates are constitutionally ineligible to serve as President or Vice President. v t e Constitution Party Presidential tickets 1992: Phillips/Knight 1996: Phillips/Titus 2000: Phillips/Frazier 2004: Peroutka/Baldwin 2008: Baldwin/Castle 2012: Goode/Clymer 2016: Castle/Bradley Parties by state Colorado Related articles Electoral history National Convention Constitution Party (United States) federal candidates in 2010 Conservatism portal Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Darrell_Castle&oldid=948821238" Categories: 1948 births Living people 20th-century American lawyers 21st-century American politicians 21st-century Presbyterians 2008 United States vice-presidential candidates Candidates in the 2012 United States presidential election Candidates in the 2016 United States presidential election Activists from Tennessee American evangelicals American libertarians American political activists American Presbyterians Christian libertarians Constitution Party (United States) presidential nominees Constitution Party (United States) vice presidential nominees Critics of the United Nations East Tennessee State University alumni Non-interventionism People from Kingsport, Tennessee Politicians from Memphis, Tennessee Tennessee Constitutionalists Tennessee lawyers Tennessee politicians United States Marine Corps officers University of Memphis alumni Hidden categories: Use mdy dates from September 2016 Pages using infobox officeholder with unknown parameters Articles needing additional references from November 2016 All articles needing additional references All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from November 2016 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages العربية تۆرکجه Беларуская Čeština Deutsch Español Français 日本語 Русский Simple English Suomi 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 3 April 2020, at 06:05 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view