https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scott_Bradley_(politician)
Scott Bradley (politician) - Wikipedia
Scott Bradley (politician) From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Scott Bradley Personal details Born (1951-09-13) September 13, 1951 (age 68) Political party Constitution Alma mater Westminster College Brigham Young University George Wythe University Scott N. Bradley (born September 13, 1951) is an American politician and university administrator from Utah. Bradley was the Constitution Party nominee for Vice President of the United States in the 2016 election, sharing the ticket with Darrell Castle.[1] He was also an administrator at Utah State University. Bradley ran for the United States Senate in Utah in both 2006 and 2010. In 2010, he received 5.67% of the vote, which was the second highest percentage for a Constitution Party nominee for Senate against both a Democrat and Republican.[1] Background[edit] Bradley has a bachelor of arts from Westminster College, masters of public administration from Brigham Young University and a Ph.D. in constitutional law from George Wythe University.[2] References[edit] ^ a b Winger, Richard (April 16, 2016). "Constitution Party Nominates Darrell Castle and Scott Bradley". Ballot Access News. Retrieved April 17, 2016. ^ Davidson, Lee. "Former USU administrator Scott Bradley runs for Senate". Deseret News. Retrieved April 17, 2016. External links[edit] Appearances on C-SPAN Party political offices Preceded by Jim Clymer Constitution nominee for Vice President of the United States 2016 Incumbent v t e (2012 ←) 2016 United States presidential election (→ 2020) 2016 United States elections Fundraising Political positions Polls national demographically statewide pre 2016 Jan–Aug 2016 international Social media Timeline General election debates Newspaper endorsements primary Vote pairing Recounts Russian interference Faithless electors Republican Party Debates and forums Endorsements Primaries Results Convention Polls national statewide straw Candidates (VP) Nominee Donald Trump campaign endorsements primary positions protests Republican opposition VP nominee: Mike Pence Other candidates Jeb Bush campaign positions Ben Carson campaign Chris Christie campaign Ted Cruz campaign endorsements positions Mark Everson Jack Fellure Carly Fiorina campaign Jim Gilmore campaign Lindsey Graham campaign Mike Huckabee campaign positions Bobby Jindal campaign John Kasich campaign endorsements Josue Larose Dennis Michael Lynch Andy Martin Jimmy McMillan George Pataki campaign Rand Paul campaign positions Rick Perry campaign positions Marco Rubio campaign positions Rick Santorum campaign Scott Walker campaign Democratic Party Political positions Endorsements Debates and forums Primaries Results Superdelegates Convention Polls national statewide straw Candidates (VP) Nominee Hillary Clinton campaign endorsements political non-political positions Democratic opposition VP nominee: Tim Kaine Other candidates Jeff Boss Harry Braun Lincoln Chafee campaign Rocky De La Fuente campaign Paul T. Farrell Jr. Keith Judd Lawrence Lessig campaign Martin O'Malley campaign Bernie Sanders campaign endorsements positions Sam Sloan Michael Steinberg Vermin Supreme Jim Webb campaign Robby Wells Willie Wilson John Wolfe Jr. Libertarian Party Debates and forums Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Gary Johnson campaign endorsements positions VP nominee: Bill Weld Other candidates John McAfee Austin Petersen Darryl W. Perry Vermin Supreme Green Party Debates and forums Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Jill Stein campaign endorsements VP nominee: Ajamu Baraka Other candidates Darryl Cherney Sedinam Kinamo Christin Moyowasifza Curry Constitution Party Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Darrell Castle campaign VP nominee: Scott Bradley Other candidates Tom Hoefling Independent Better for America Evan McMullin campaign endorsements Mindy Finn Other third-party and independent candidates American Delta Party Rocky De La Fuente campaign VP nominee: Michael Steinberg American Party of South Carolina Peter Skewes American Solidarity Party Mike Maturen America's Party Wiley Drake James Hedges Tom Hoefling Nutrition Party Rod Silva Party for Socialism and Liberation Gloria La Riva VP nominee: Eugene Puryear* Peace and Freedom Party Gloria La Riva VP nominee: Dennis Banks Other candidates Monica Moorehead Jill Stein Prohibition Party James Hedges Reform Party Rocky De La Fuente campaign VP nominee: Michael Steinberg Other candidates Darcy Richardson Socialist Action Jeff Mackler Socialist Equality Party Jerry White Socialist Party USA Mimi Soltysik campaign VP nominee: Angela Nicole Walker Socialist Workers Party Alyson Kennedy VP nominee: Osborne Hart United States Pacifist Party Bradford Lyttle Workers World Party Monica Moorehead Independent candidates Laurence Kotlikoff * : These candidates are constitutionally ineligible to serve as President or Vice President. v t e Constitution Party Presidential tickets 1992: Phillips/Knight 1996: Phillips/Titus 2000: Phillips/Frazier 2004: Peroutka/Baldwin 2008: Baldwin/Castle 2012: Goode/Clymer 2016: Castle/Bradley Parties by state Colorado Related articles Electoral history National Convention Constitution Party (United States) federal candidates in 2010 Conservatism portal This article about a Utah politician is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it. v t e Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Scott_Bradley_(politician)&oldid=948653314" Categories: 1952 births Brigham Young University alumni Constitution Party (United States) vice presidential nominees George Wythe University alumni Living people 2016 United States vice-presidential candidates Utah politicians Utah State University people Westminster College (Utah) alumni Utah Constitutionalists Utah politician stubs Hidden categories: Pages using infobox officeholder with unknown parameters All stub articles Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Deutsch 日本語 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 2 April 2020, at 07:32 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view