https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Party_for_Socialism_and_Liberation
Party for Socialism and Liberation - Wikipedia
Party for Socialism and Liberation From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Communist and Marxist-Leninist political party in the United States Not to be confused with Party of Liberation and Socialism. This article may rely excessively on sources too closely associated with the subject, potentially preventing the article from being verifiable and neutral. Please help improve it by replacing them with more appropriate citations to reliable, independent, third-party sources. (April 2020) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Party for Socialism and Liberation Leader Central Committee[1] Founded June 2004; 15 years ago (2004-06)[2] Split from Workers World Party Headquarters San Francisco, California Washington, D.C. Ideology Communism[3] Marxism-Leninism Revolutionary socialism Political position Far-left Colors Red Website pslweb.org Politics of United States Political parties Elections The Party for Socialism and Liberation (PSL) is a communist party[3] in the United States established in 2004 after a split in the Workers World Party (WWP).[4] The PSL is running Gloria La Riva and Leonard Peltier in the 2020 election.[5] Contents 1 History 2 Ideology 3 Publications 4 Presidential candidate performance 5 See also 6 References 7 External links History[edit] Part of a series on Socialism in the United States History Utopian socialism Bishop Hill Commune Brook Farm Icarians Looking Backward New Harmony Oneida Community Progressive Era 1877 St. Louis general strike 1912 Lawrence textile strike Catholic Worker Movement Green Corn Rebellion Labor unionization Haymarket affair May Day Women's suffrage Repression and persecution American Defense Society American Protective League Communist Party USA and African Americans Communists in the labor movement 1919–1937 1937–1957 Espionage Act of 1917 First Red Scare John Birch Society McCarthyism Seattle General Strike Smith Act Smith Act trials Anti-war and civil rights movements Black Power movement COINTELPRO Great Society "I Have a Dream" March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom New Left Poor People's Campaign War on Poverty Contemporary 1999 Seattle WTO protests Financial crisis of 2007–08 Occupy Wall Street People Abern Andrews Avrich Balagroon Barnes Bellamy (Edward) Bellamy (Francis) Berger Berkman Bookchin Browder Cabet Cannon Carmichael Carter Chomsky Clayre Davis Day Debs De Leon Dobbs Dreiser Du Bois Einstein Fearing Ford Foster Galleani Gitlow Goldman Greene Guthrie Hall Hammett Harrington Hay Haywood (Bill) Haywood (Harry) Hawkins Hedges Heywood (Angela) Heywood (Ezra) Hill Hillquit Hoan Hoffman Keller King Labadie London Lovestone Lum McReynolds Mitchell Most Newton Ocasio-Cortez Ochs Oswald Owen Parsons (Albert) Parsons (Lucy) Randolph Ripley Reed Rocker Rustin Ruthenberg Sacco Sandburg Sanders Sawant Seale Seidel Shachtman Sinclair Spooner Sweezy Thomas Tlaib Tucker Vanzetti Warren West Wolff Zeidler Zerzan Active organizations American Party of Labor Black Riders Liberation Party Colorado Springs Socialists Committees of Correspondence for Democracy and Socialism Communist Party USA Democratic Socialists of America Freedom Road Socialist Organization Freedom Socialist Party Industrial Workers of the World Legal Marijuana Now Party New Afrikan Black Panther Party New Students for a Democratic Society Party for Socialism and Liberation Peace and Freedom Party Progressive Labor Party Redneck Revolt Revolutionary Communist Party, USA Social Democrats, USA Socialist Action Socialist Alternative Socialist Equality Party Socialist Party USA Socialist Rifle Association Socialist Workers Party Spartacist League Workers World Party World Socialist Party of the United States Defunct organizations American Labor Party American Workers Party Black Panther Party Communist League of America Communist Workers' Party Democratic Socialist Federation Democratic Socialist Organizing Committee Farmer–Labor Party International Socialist Organization Maoist Internationalist Movement New American Movement Proletarian Party of America Puerto Rican Socialist Party Social Democracy of America Social Democratic Federation Social Democratic Party of America Socialist Labor Party of America Socialist Party of America Students for a Democratic Society Weather Underground White Panther Party Workers Party of the United States Youth International Party Literature Appeal to Reason Daily Worker International Socialist Review The Jungle Looking Backward Monopoly Capital Monthly Review The Other America Voluntary Socialism Why Socialism? Related topics American Left Anarchism Anarchism in the United States Anarcho-communism Anarcho-primitivism Anarcho-syndicalism Democratic socialism Green anarchism Individualist anarchism Individualist anarchism in the United States Labor history Labor laws Labor unions Libertarian socialism Marxism Marxism–Leninism Minimum wage Mutualism Post-left anarchy Scientific socialism Social democracy Socialism Utopian socialism Socialism portal United States portal v t e The PSL was formed when the San Francisco branch and several other members left the Workers World Party in June 2004, announcing that "the Workers World Party leadership is no longer capable of fulfilling [the] mission" of building socialism.[4] Ideology[edit] The party's goal is to lead a revolution paving the way towards socialism, under which a "new government of working people" would be formed. The PSL proposes many radical changes to be implemented by this government. In the political sphere, all elected representatives should be recallable, securing freedom of speech for the working class (except in the case of xenophobia or bigotry and to prevent re-establishment of the capitalist system) and the elimination of corporate influence from politics. The party's program states: "Achieving fully developed socialism, a goal that has not yet been achieved anywhere, will open the way to communism and the end of class society".[6] Concerning economics, the PSL would among other measures prohibit the exploitation of labor for private profit, implement a working week of 30 hours and eradicate poverty through the introduction of a basic income guarantee. The PSL would grant the right of self-determination to what it considers oppressed nations of the United States, including "African Americans, Native, Puerto Rican and other Latino national minorities, the Hawaiian nation, Asian, Pacific Islander, Arab, and other oppressed peoples who have experienced oppression as a whole people under capitalism". It would grant independence to Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the Virgin Islands and the Mariana Islands, which it considers colonies. Historically, the PSL has a generally positive view of the Soviet Union, describing the October Revolution as "the single biggest event that shaped global politics in the 20th century". The PSL acknowledges that the New Economic Policy of Vladimir Lenin led "to a re-polarization of social classes, especially in the countryside". The PSL blames the reforms initiated by Mikhail Gorbachev for the fall of the Soviet Union.[7] Eugene Puryear, the party's nominee for Vice President in 2016, found employment with the Russian state-owned radio-channel Radio Sputnik immediately after the election.[8] The PSL supports Cuba and mourned the death of former Cuban President Fidel Castro.[9] While it has been critical of the Chinese government, the PSL acknowledges China's contributions to socialism and anti-imperialist struggle and it views the Chinese Revolution favorably.[10] The PSL also supports the Bolivarian Revolution in Venezuela. It has endorsed activities that called for the release of the Cuban Five—deemed political prisoners by supporters—and called for the extradition of Luis Posada Carriles from the United States.[11] The PSL voiced solidarity with Nepal upon the overthrow of the monarchy and the 2008 election of Pushpa Kamal Dahal.[12] In the Leninist tradition,[13] the PSL supports the right of nations to self-determination. It has been outspoken in condemning Israel and its role in the Middle East. The PSL led demonstrations against the Israeli invasion of Lebanon in July 2006 and supports the right of return for Palestinians.[14] The PSL co-operates with other organizations across the United States in the anti-war movement[15] and is a member of the steering committee of the Act Now to Stop War and End Racism Coalition (A.N.S.W.E.R.). As one of the most active members of the coalition, the PSL has gained notice for successfully forging ties with Arab and Muslim American groups such as the Muslim American Society, Al-Awda and the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee.[16] The PSL advocates for the end of the United States military presence in Iraq, Afghanistan and Syria and the closure of all United States foreign military bases.[17] Publications[edit] The party's main publication is the monthly newspaper, Liberation News,[18] which replaced a quarterly magazine, Socialism and Liberation.[19] The PSL outlines its political perspective, including its assessment of the current international and domestic situation, in the pamphlet Who We Are, What We Stand For.[20] The party also owns its own printing company, PSL Publications, through which it has published multiple printed books such as Socialists and War: Two Opposing Trends by members Mazda Majidi and Brian Becker[21] and an e-book which was released through Amazon titled A Woman's Place Is in the Struggle by members Ana Maria Ramirez, Anne Gamboni, Gloria La Riva and Liz Lowengard.[22] The PSL's publication company is headquartered in San Francisco, California. Presidential candidate performance[edit] Year Presidential candidate/Vice presidential candidate Popular votes Percentage Electoral votes 2008 Gloria La Riva/Eugene Puryear 6,818[23] 0.01% 0 2012 Peta Lindsay/Yari Osorio 7,791[24] 0.01% 0 2016 Gloria La Riva/Eugene Puryear 74,392[25] 0.05% 0 2020 Gloria La Riva/Leonard Peltier - - - See also[edit] United States portal Politics portal Communism portal Socialism portal List of political parties in the United States American Left Socialist Party of America Socialist Alternative Socialist Party USA Workers World Party References[edit] ^ Chat with the PSL on Facebook. ^ "Socialism and Liberation magazine is changing". Archived February 22, 2008, at the Wayback Machine. Pslweb.org. Retrieved June 7, 2008. ^ a b "'No separate destiny for US workers apart from the workers of the world'". International Communist Press. October 1, 2018. Retrieved February 8, 2019. We are a communist party. ^ a b "Party for Socialism and Liberation: People's Struggle and the Socialist Revolution". August 1, 2004. ^ Admin, About the author Psl. "La Riva / Peltier Presidential Campaign Announcement". La Riva Peltier 2020. Retrieved 2019-09-27. ^ "Program of the Party for Socialism and Liberation". Liberation School. Party for Socialism and Liberation. July 10, 2015. Retrieved July 26, 2017. ^ Becker, Brian. "Socialism and the legacy of the Soviet Uni". Why Socialism?. Party for Socialism and Liberation. Archived from the original on September 29, 2011. Retrieved July 14, 2011. ^ "A U.S. Station Switched From Bluegrass to Radio Sputnik—and Got Threats From the Feds". 13 December 2017 – via www.bloomberg.com. ^ "Miguel Fraga: Until forever, Commander - Liberation News". Liberation News. November 26, 2016. Retrieved November 29, 2016. ^ "PSL commemorates the 60th anniversary of the Chinese Revolution". Liberation News. October 1, 2009. Retrieved June 27, 2017. ^ Cuba Solidarity Campaign Archived July 6, 2007, at the Wayback Machine. Pslweb.org. Retrivied June 4, 2007. ^ "Ferment in Nepal: A dynamic vortex of revolutionary change". January 3, 2009. Retrieved January 17, 2014. ^ Lenin, V.I. "The Right of Nations to Self-Determination". Marxists.org. Retrieved December 15, 2017. ^ "PSL statement: Solidarity with the Palestinian people". Liberation News. November 29, 2018. ^ "Paul Le Blanc: Revolutionary organisation and the 'Occupy moment'". February 16, 2012. Retrieved January 17, 2014. ^ Kanowitz, Saul (July 25, 2006). "Al-Awda convention shows solidarity with Palestine and Lebanon". Liberation News. Retrieved December 15, 2017. ^ "Part 2: The U.S. drive for global domination". Party for Socialism and Liberation. Retrieved July 14, 2011. ^ Webmaster, PSL. "Liberation News: reporting from the front-line of struggle". Liberation News. Retrieved August 15, 2017. ^ "Socialism and Liberation magazine is changing". June 5, 2007. January 7, 2018. ^ "Who We Are, What We Stand For". Archived from the original on February 6, 2006. Retrieved August 15, 2017. ^ "Socialists and war: two opposing trends". ^ Ramirez, Ana Maria; Gamboni, Anne; Riva, Gloria La; Lowengard, Liz; Lindsay, Peta (March 4, 2013). "A Woman's Place Is in the Struggle". PSL Publications. Retrieved August 15, 2017 – via Amazon. ^ "Federal Elections 2018" (PDF). Federal Election Commission. July 2009. Retrieved January 25, 2018. ^ Weintraub, Ellen (July 2013). "Federal Elections 2012" (PDF). Federal Election Commission. Retrieved January 25, 2018. ^ "Official 2016 Presidential General Election Results" (PDF). Federal Election Commission. January 30, 2017. Retrieved January 25, 2018. External links[edit] Official website Answer Coalition.org Liberation News. Liberation School. v t e Current communist parties in the United States Marxist-Leninist American Party of Labor Communist Party USA Communist Party USA (Provisional) Freedom Road Socialist Organization New Afrikan Black Panther Party Party for Socialism and Liberation Progressive Labor Party Revolutionary Communist Party, USA U.S. Marxist–Leninist Organization Trotskyist Freedom Socialist Party Socialist Action Socialist Alternative Socialist Equality Party Solidarity Other All-African People's Revolutionary Party Liberation Road Socialist Workers Party Workers World Party Communism portal List of communist parties v t e National political parties in the United States List of political parties in the United States Major parties Democratic Republican Third parties Larger 1 Constitution Green Libertarian Smaller 2 American (1969) American Freedom American Solidarity Citizens Communist Freedom Socialist Humane Justice Legal Marijuana Now Marijuana Pirate Prohibition Reform Socialism and Liberation Socialist (1973) Socialist Action Socialist Alternative Socialist Equality Socialist Workers Working Families Workers World Defunct parties Major parties Democratic-Republican Federalist National Republican Whig Third parties American (Know Nothing) American (1924) American Nazi American Vegetarian Americans Elect Anti-Masonic Black Panther Boston Tea Citizens Communist Workers' Constitution (1952) Constitutional Union Democratic-Republican (1844) Farmer–Labor Free Soil Modern Whig Gold Democrats Greenback Independence (1906) Independence (2007) Labor (1919) Labor (1996) Liberal Republican Liberty (1840) National Renaissance National Socialist National States' Rights National Union (1864) Natural Law New Alliance New Union Nullifier Opposition Populist (People's) Personal Choice Populist Progressive (1912) Progressive (1924) Progressive (1948) Radical Democracy Raza Unida Readjuster Red Guard Silver Silver Republican Social Democratic Socialist (1901) Socialist Labor States Rights (Dixiecrat) Traditionalist Worker Unconditional Union Union (1936) Unionist (1850s/60s) U.S. Labor White Patriot Workers Youth International 1 Recognized as a major national party by the FEC 2 Not recognized as a major national party by the FEC State and local political parties (without national body) Presidential nominating conventions Politics of the United States Politics portal Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Party_for_Socialism_and_Liberation&oldid=952356503" Categories: Party for Socialism and Liberation 2004 establishments in the United States Marxist-Leninist parties in the United States Non-interventionist parties Political parties established in 2004 Socialist parties in the United States Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links Articles with short description Articles lacking reliable references from April 2020 All articles lacking reliable references Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Español 日本語 Polski Português Suomi 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 21 April 2020, at 20:56 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view