https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gloria_La_Riva
Gloria La Riva - Wikipedia
Gloria La Riva From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Socialist activist and perennial candidate for United States president Gloria La Riva Gloria La Riva speaking at a protest in San Francisco, January 2017 Personal details Born (1954-08-13) August 13, 1954 (age 65) Albuquerque, New Mexico, U.S. Political party Party for Socialism and Liberation Other political affiliations Peace and Freedom Party Worker's World Party (former member) Alma mater Brandeis University Occupation Newspaper Printer, activist Gloria Estela La Riva (born August 13, 1954) is an American socialist activist who is a member of the Party for Socialism and Liberation (PSL) and the Peace and Freedom Party. She is the PSL’s nominee and the Peace and Freedom’s nominee in the 2020 presidential election, her tenth consecutive candidacy as either a presidential or vice presidential candidate. She was previously a member of the Workers World Party. She ran as the PSL's and the Peace and Freedom Party's presidential candidate in the 2016 presidential election, with Eugene Puryear and Dennis J. Banks[1] as her running mates respectively. She was PSL's presidential nominee in the 2008 presidential election.[2] For the 2020 election, Leonard Peltier is her running mate. Contents 1 Life and career 1.1 Other activities 2 References 3 External links Life and career[edit] La Riva in 2008 La Riva was born in Albuquerque, New Mexico on August 13, 1954. She graduated from high school and began attending Brandeis University in 1972.[3] She was a third-party candidate for President of the United States in the 1992 presidential election, representing the Workers World Party. She had also been the Workers World Party vice-presidential candidate in the elections of 1984, 1988, 1996, and 2000. She joined the Party for Socialism and Liberation in its split from the Workers World Party. La Riva was also the Peace and Freedom Party candidate for Governor of California in 1994, receiving 72,774 votes (0.9%). She ran again in the 1998 gubernatorial election, capturing 59,218 votes (0.71%). She also ran for San Francisco Mayor in 1983 (7,328 votes – 5.4%), coming in third overall, and second in the working class wards of the city, and 1991 (2,552 votes – 1.4%),[4][5] and for Congress in 2010 (3rd place – 3%).[6][7] In the 2008 Presidential election, La Riva received 6,821 votes, the 10th highest vote total.[8] La Riva has also been the director of the National Committee to Free the Cuban Five, and president of the typographical sector of the Northern California Media Workers Union.[9] In 2010, La Riva was the Peace and Freedom Party's candidate for U.S. Congress in California's 8th Congressional District. Running against Democratic House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, she came in third, receiving 5,161 votes, 3% of the overall vote. In 2012, La Riva was a presidential stand-in for Peta Lindsay, the PSL nominee for President who was not allowed on the ballot in some states due to her age.[10] La Riva was on the ballot in Iowa, Utah and Wisconsin.[11] In July 2015, she was announced as the PSL's presidential nominee, with Eugene Puryear as her running mate.[12] As of July 24, 2016 La Riva and her campaign had raised $25,234 and spent $10,092.[13] She attained ballot access in eight states: Vermont, New Mexico, Iowa, Louisiana, Colorado, Washington, New Jersey, and California.[14] La Riva was a candidate for the Peace and Freedom Party nomination for Governor of California in 2018.[15] She received the PSL nomination for the 2020 presidential election, with Leonard Peltier as her running mate.[16] She won the Peace & Freedom Party primary in California for the 2020 United States Presidential Election, beating Green Party candidate Howie Hawkins. Other activities[edit] La Riva has translated Fidel Castro's book Cuba at the Crossroads (1997) ISBN 1-875284-94-X, and produced the documentary videos NATO Targets, Workers' Democracy in Cuba (1996), Genocide by Sanctions: The Case of Iraq (1998) and Let Iraq Live! References[edit] ^ "Meet Dennis Banks". Gloria La Riva 4 President. ^ "Vote PSL in 2008!" (Press release). Party for Socialism and Liberation. 2008-01-18. Archived from the original on 2008-06-12. Retrieved 2008-01-20. ^ "Third Party Alternative Debate". YouTube. Vanderbilt University. October 8, 2008. ^ Lawrence Kestenbaum. "The Political Graveyard: Mayors and Postmasters of San Francisco, California". Political Graveyard. ^ "Gloria La Riva: Biography". calvoter.org. ^ Administrator. "Gloria La Riva for Congress – District 8". peaceandfreedom.org. ^ "Gloria LaRiva's Biography — The Voter's Self Defense System — Vote Smart". Project Vote Smart. ^ "2008 Presidential General Election Results". Dave Leip's Election Results. Retrieved 2010-05-03. ^ "Media Workers Guild, Typographical Union — Officers and Staff". Pacific Media Workers Guild. Retrieved 2008-05-27. ^ Winger, Richard (August 17, 2012). "Ballot Access News » Blog Archive » Only One Presidential Candidate Files in Utah Using the Independent Candidate Procedure". Ballot Access News. Retrieved 17 August 2012. ^ Winger, Richard (August 17, 2012). "Ballot Access News » Blog Archive » Iowa Will List Eight Presidential Candidates". Ballot Access News. Retrieved 18 August 2012. ^ Winger, Richard (July 24, 2015). "Party for Socialism and Liberation Announces 2016 Presidential Ticket". Ballot Access News. Retrieved July 25, 2015. ^ "Details for Candidate ID : P80005572 Cycle". fec.gov. Retrieved August 21, 2016. ^ Powell, Chris (2016-08-03). "Who is on the presidential ballot where?". Medium. Retrieved 2016-09-09. ^ "Election 2018: The Peace & Freedom Party Candidates". Peace and Freedom Party. December 18, 2017. Retrieved February 20, 2018. ^ "La Riva / Peltier Presidential Campaign Announcement". La Riva & Peltier 2020. Retrieved 25 September 2019. External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Gloria La Riva. 2020 campaign website 2016 campaign website "Standing for Castro at the US election", a brief report on Gloria La Riva by France 24, October 29, 2008 "Meet Gloria", profile on Votepsl.org Appearances on C-SPAN Party political offices Preceded by Gavrielle Holmes Workers World Party Vice Presidential candidate 1984 (lost), 1988 (lost) Succeeded by Larry Holmes Preceded by Larry Holmes Workers World Party Presidential candidate 1992 (lost) Succeeded by Monica Moorehead Preceded by Maria Elizabeth Munoz Peace and Freedom Party California Gubernatorial candidate 1994 (lost), 1998 (lost) Succeeded by C. T. Weber Preceded by Larry Holmes Workers World Party Vice Presidential candidate 1996 (lost), 2000 (lost) Succeeded by Teresa Gutierrez Preceded by None Party for Socialism and Liberation Presidential candidate 2008 Succeeded by Peta Lindsay Preceded by Peta Lindsay Party for Socialism and Liberation Presidential candidate 2016, 2020 Succeeded by incumbent v t e (1980 ←) 1984 United States presidential election (→ 1988) Republican Party Convention Primaries Primary results Nominee Ronald Reagan positions VP nominee George H. W. Bush Candidates Ben Fernandez Harold Stassen Democratic Party Convention Primaries Primary results Nominee Walter Mondale campaign VP nominee Geraldine Ferraro Candidates Reubin Askew Alan Cranston John Glenn Gary Hart Fritz Hollings Jesse Jackson campaign George McGovern Third party and independent candidates Citizens Party Nominee Sonia Johnson VP nominee Richard Walton Communist Party Nominee Gus Hall VP nominee Angela Davis Libertarian Party Nominee David Bergland VP nominee Jim Lewis Candidates Gene Burns Earl Ravenal Mary Ruwart Prohibition Party Nominee Earl Dodge Socialist Equality Party Nominee Edward Winn VP nominee Helen Halyard Socialist Party Nominee Sonia Johnson VP nominee Richard Walton Socialist Workers Party Nominee Melvin T. Mason VP nominee Matilde Zimmermann Workers World Party Nominee Larry Holmes Alternate nominee Gavrielle Holmes VP nominee Gloria La Riva Independents and other candidates Charles Doty Larry Flynt Larry "Bozo" Harmon Lyndon LaRouche Running mate Billy Davis Other 1984 elections House Senate Gubernatorial v t e (1984 ←) 1988 United States presidential election (→ 1992) Republican Party Convention Primaries Primary results Nominee George H. W. Bush campaign VP nominee Dan Quayle Candidates Bob Dole Pete du Pont Ben Fernandez Alexander Haig Jack Kemp Paul Laxalt Isabell Masters Pat Robertson Donald Rumsfeld Harold Stassen Democratic Party Convention Primaries Primary results Nominee Michael Dukakis campaign VP nominee Lloyd Bentsen Candidates Douglas Applegate Bruce Babbitt Joe Biden campaign positions David Duke Dick Gephardt Al Gore campaign Gary Hart Jesse Jackson campaign Lyndon LaRouche campaign positions Andy Martin Patricia Schroeder Paul Simon James Traficant Third party and independent candidates Libertarian Party Convention Nominee Ron Paul campaign positions VP nominee Andre Marrou Candidates Jim Lewis Russell Means New Alliance Party Nominee Lenora Fulani Populist Party Nominee David Duke Prohibition Party Nominee Earl Dodge VP nominee George Ormsby Socialist Equality Party Nominee Edward Winn Socialist Party Nominee Willa Kenoyer VP nominee Ron Ehrenreich Socialist Workers Party Nominee James Warren VP nominee Kathleen Mickells Workers World Party Nominee Larry Holmes VP nominee Gloria La Riva Independents and others Jack Herer Lyndon LaRouche Herbert G. Lewin William A. Marra Eugene McCarthy Other 1988 elections: House Senate Gubernatorial v t e (1988 ←) 1992 United States presidential election (→ 1996) Democratic Party Convention Primaries Nominee Bill Clinton campaign positions VP nominee Al Gore Candidates Larry Agran Jerry Brown Tom Harkin Bob Kerrey Lyndon LaRouche campaign positions Tom Laughlin Eugene McCarthy Paul Tsongas Douglas Wilder Charles Woods Republican Party Convention Primaries Nominee George H. W. Bush VP nominee Dan Quayle Candidates Pat Buchanan David Duke Jack Fellure Isabell Masters Pat Paulsen Tennie Rogers Harold Stassen Independent Candidate Ross Perot (campaign) VP candidate James Stockdale Other independent and third party candidates Libertarian Party Convention Nominee Andre Marrou VP nominee Nancy Lord Natural Law Party Nominee John Hagelin VP nominee Mike Tompkins New Alliance Party Nominee Lenora Fulani VP nominee Maria Elizabeth Muñoz Prohibition Party Nominee Earl Dodge VP nominee George Ormsby Socialist Party USA Nominee J. Quinn Brisben VP nominee Barbara Garson Socialist Workers Party Nominee James Warren VP nominee Willie Mae Reid U.S. Taxpayers Party Convention Nominee Howard Phillips VP nominee Albion W. Knight, Jr. Workers World Party Nominee Gloria La Riva VP nominee Larry Holmes Independents and other candidates Ronald Daniels (Running mate: Asiba Tupahache) Bo Gritz Isabell Masters Other 1992 elections House Senate Gubernatorial v t e (1992 ←) 1996 United States presidential election (→ 2000) Democratic Party Convention Primaries Nominee Bill Clinton positions VP nominee Al Gore Candidates James D. Griffin Lyndon LaRouche campaign positions Pat Paulsen Republican Party Convention Primaries Nominee Bob Dole VP nominee Jack Kemp Candidates Lamar Alexander Pat Buchanan Charles E. Collins Bob Dornan Jack Fellure Arthur Fletcher Steve Forbes Phil Gramm Alan Keyes Richard Lugar Isabell Masters Jimmy McMillan Tennie Rogers Arlen Specter Morry Taylor Pete Wilson Reform Party Primaries Nominee Ross Perot VP nominee Pat Choate Candidates Richard Lamm Other Third party and independent candidates Green Party Convention Nominee Ralph Nader (campaign) VP nominee Winona LaDuke Independent Grassroots Party Nominee John Birrenbach VP nominee George McMahon Libertarian Party Convention Nominee Harry Browne VP nominee Jo Jorgensen Candidates Irwin Schiff Natural Law Party Nominee John Hagelin VP nominee Mike Tompkins Prohibition Party Nominee Earl Dodge VP nominee Rachel Bubar Kelly Socialist Party Nominee Mary Cal Hollis VP nominee Eric Chester Socialist Workers Party Nominee James Harris U.S. Taxpayers Party Nominee Howard Phillips VP nominee Herb Titus Workers World Party Nominee Monica Moorehead VP nominee Gloria La Riva Independents and other candidates Joan Jett Blakk Marsha Feinland Isabell Masters Steve Michael Dennis Peron Other 1996 elections House Senate Gubernatorial v t e (1996 ←) 2000 United States presidential election (→ 2004) General election results Florida results Republican Party Convention Primaries Nominee George W. Bush campaign positions VP nominee Dick Cheney Candidates Lamar Alexander Gary Bauer Pat Buchanan campaign Herman Cain positions Elizabeth Dole Jack Fellure Steve Forbes Orrin Hatch John Kasich campaign positions Alan Keyes campaign Andy Martin John McCain campaign positions Dan Quayle Bob Smith Democratic Party Convention Primaries Nominee Al Gore campaign VP nominee Joe Lieberman positions Candidates Bill Bradley campaign Lyndon LaRouche campaign positions Constitution Party Convention Nominee Howard Phillips VP nominee Curtis Frazier Candidates Herb Titus Green Party Convention Nominee Ralph Nader campaign VP nominee Winona LaDuke Candidates Jello Biafra Stephen Gaskin Joel Kovel Libertarian Party Convention Nominee Harry Browne campaign VP nominee Art Olivier Candidates Barry Hess L. Neil Smith Reform Party Primaries Nominee Pat Buchanan campaign VP nominee Ezola B. Foster Candidates John Hagelin Donald Trump campaign positions Natural Law Party Nominee John Hagelin VP nominee Nat Goldhaber Prohibition Party Nominee Earl Dodge VP nominee W. Dean Watkins Socialist Party Nominee David McReynolds VP nominee Mary Cal Hollis Socialist Workers Party Nominee James Harris VP nominee Margaret Trowe Workers World Party Nominee Monica Moorehead VP nominee Gloria La Riva Independent Cathy Gordon Brown Charles E. Collins Isabell Masters Joe Schriner Florida election recount and legal proceedings Key figures Katherine Harris Jeb Bush David Boies Theodore Olson James Baker Ron Klain Warren Christopher Michael Whouley Benjamin Ginsberg Bob Butterworth Joe Allbaugh Mac Stipanovich Craig Waters Theresa LePore Carol Roberts Election day Florida Central Voter File (scrub list) Volusia error Chad Butterfly ballot Aftermath and legal proceedings Florida election recount Brooks Brothers riot Palm Beach County Canvassing Board v. Harris (Harris I) Gore v. Harris (Harris II) Bush v. Palm Beach County Canvassing Board Bush v. Gore Films Recount (2008) Bush Family Fortunes (2004) Unprecedented: The 2000 Presidential Election (2002) Other 2000 elections House Senate Gubernatorial v t e (2004 ←) 2008 United States presidential election (→ 2012) 2008 United States elections Candidates Comparison Debates Congressional support Fundraising Ballot access Timeline Super Tuesday Potomac primary Super Tuesday II General polls Statewide general polls International polls International reaction Democratic Party Convention Primary polls General polls Debates Primaries Primary results Superdelegates Democratic candidates Nominee Barack Obama campaign positions endorsements Republican VP nominee Joe Biden positions Other candidates: Evan Bayh campaign Joe Biden campaign positions Hillary Clinton campaign positions endorsements Chris Dodd campaign John Edwards campaign positions Mike Gravel campaign Dennis Kucinich campaign Bill Richardson campaign Tom Vilsack campaign Republican Party Convention Primary polls General polls Debates Political positions Primaries Primary results Republican candidates Nominee John McCain campaign positions endorsements Democratic VP nominee Sarah Palin candidacy positions Other candidates: Sam Brownback John H. Cox Jim Gilmore campaign Rudy Giuliani campaign positions Mike Huckabee campaign positions Duncan L. Hunter campaign Alan Keyes campaign Ray McKinney Ron Paul campaign positions Mitt Romney campaign positions Tom Tancredo campaign Fred Thompson campaign Tommy Thompson campaign Draft movements Democratic Party Al Gore Mark Warner (movement) Republican Party Newt Gingrich Condoleezza Rice (movement) Independent Michael Bloomberg (movement) Third party and independent candidates Constitution Party Convention Nominee Chuck Baldwin (campaign) VP nominee Darrell Castle Candidates Daniel Imperato Alan Keyes campaign Green Party Convention Nominee Cynthia McKinney campaign positions VP nominee Rosa Clemente Candidates Elaine Brown Jesse Johnson Kent Mesplay Kat Swift Libertarian Party Convention Nominee Bob Barr campaign positions VP nominee Wayne Allyn Root Candidates Mike Gravel campaign Daniel Imperato Michael Jingozian Steve Kubby Wayne Allyn Root Mary Ruwart Doug Stanhope America's Independent Party Nominee Alan Keyes (campaign) VP nominee Brian Rohrbough Boston Tea Party Nominee Charles Jay Objectivist Party Nominee Tom Stevens Peace and Freedom Party Nominee Ralph Nader campaign VP nominee Matt Gonzalez Candidates: Gloria La Riva Cynthia McKinney campaign Brian Moore campaign Prohibition Party Nominee Gene Amondson Reform Party Nominee Ted Weill VP nominee Frank McEnulty Socialism and Liberation Party Nominee Gloria La Riva VP nominee Eugene Puryear Socialist Party Nominee Brian Moore (campaign) VP nominee Stewart Alexander Candidates Eric Chester Socialist Workers Party Nominee Róger Calero Alternate nominee James Harris VP nominee Alyson Kennedy Independent / Other Jeff Boss Stephen Colbert Earl Dodge Bradford Lyttle Frank Moore Joe Schriner Jonathon Sharkey Other 2008 elections: House Senate Gubernatorial v t e (2012 ←) 2016 United States presidential election (→ 2020) 2016 United States elections Fundraising Political positions Polls national demographically statewide pre 2016 Jan–Aug 2016 international Social media Timeline General election debates Newspaper endorsements primary Vote pairing Recounts Russian interference Faithless electors Republican Party Debates and forums Endorsements Primaries Results Convention Polls national statewide straw Candidates (VP) Nominee Donald Trump campaign endorsements primary positions protests Republican opposition VP nominee: Mike Pence Other candidates Jeb Bush campaign positions Ben Carson campaign Chris Christie campaign Ted Cruz campaign endorsements positions Mark Everson Jack Fellure Carly Fiorina campaign Jim Gilmore campaign Lindsey Graham campaign Mike Huckabee campaign positions Bobby Jindal campaign John Kasich campaign endorsements Josue Larose Dennis Michael Lynch Andy Martin Jimmy McMillan George Pataki campaign Rand Paul campaign positions Rick Perry campaign positions Marco Rubio campaign positions Rick Santorum campaign Scott Walker campaign Democratic Party Political positions Endorsements Debates and forums Primaries Results Superdelegates Convention Polls national statewide straw Candidates (VP) Nominee Hillary Clinton campaign endorsements political non-political positions Democratic opposition VP nominee: Tim Kaine Other candidates Jeff Boss Harry Braun Lincoln Chafee campaign Rocky De La Fuente campaign Paul T. Farrell Jr. Keith Judd Lawrence Lessig campaign Martin O'Malley campaign Bernie Sanders campaign endorsements positions Sam Sloan Michael Steinberg Vermin Supreme Jim Webb campaign Robby Wells Willie Wilson John Wolfe Jr. Libertarian Party Debates and forums Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Gary Johnson campaign endorsements positions VP nominee: Bill Weld Other candidates John McAfee Austin Petersen Darryl W. Perry Vermin Supreme Green Party Debates and forums Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Jill Stein campaign endorsements VP nominee: Ajamu Baraka Other candidates Darryl Cherney Sedinam Kinamo Christin Moyowasifza Curry Constitution Party Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Darrell Castle campaign VP nominee: Scott Bradley Other candidates Tom Hoefling Independent Better for America Evan McMullin campaign endorsements Mindy Finn Other third-party and independent candidates American Delta Party Rocky De La Fuente campaign VP nominee: Michael Steinberg American Party of South Carolina Peter Skewes American Solidarity Party Mike Maturen America's Party Wiley Drake James Hedges Tom Hoefling Nutrition Party Rod Silva Party for Socialism and Liberation Gloria La Riva VP nominee: Eugene Puryear* Peace and Freedom Party Gloria La Riva VP nominee: Dennis Banks Other candidates Monica Moorehead Jill Stein Prohibition Party James Hedges Reform Party Rocky De La Fuente campaign VP nominee: Michael Steinberg Other candidates Darcy Richardson Socialist Action Jeff Mackler Socialist Equality Party Jerry White Socialist Party USA Mimi Soltysik campaign VP nominee: Angela Nicole Walker Socialist Workers Party Alyson Kennedy VP nominee: Osborne Hart United States Pacifist Party Bradford Lyttle Workers World Party Monica Moorehead Independent candidates Laurence Kotlikoff * : These candidates are constitutionally ineligible to serve as President or Vice President. v t e (2016 ←) 2020 United States presidential election (→ 2024) 2020 United States elections Polls national state Timeline Republican Party Primaries Results Debates Convention Polls Endorsements Candidates Presumptive nominee Donald Trump campaign endorsements positions Other candidates Rocky De La Fuente campaign Withdrawn during primaries Joe Walsh campaign Bill Weld campaign Withdrawn before primaries Mark Sanford campaign Democratic Party Primaries Candidates Debates Forums Results Convention Polls national state Political positions Endorsements Candidates Presumptive nominee Joe Biden campaign endorsements positions Withdrawn during primaries Michael Bennet campaign Michael Bloomberg campaign endorsements positions Pete Buttigieg campaign endorsements positions Tulsi Gabbard campaign positions Amy Klobuchar campaign endorsements positions Deval Patrick campaign Bernie Sanders campaign endorsements positions media coverage Tom Steyer campaign Elizabeth Warren campaign endorsements positions Andrew Yang campaign endorsements Withdrawn before primaries Cory Booker campaign endorsements positions Steve Bullock campaign Julian Castro campaign Bill de Blasio campaign John Delaney campaign positions Kirsten Gillibrand campaign positions Mike Gravel campaign Kamala Harris campaign endorsements John Hickenlooper campaign Jay Inslee campaign Wayne Messam campaign Seth Moulton campaign Richard Ojeda campaign Beto O'Rourke campaign Tim Ryan campaign Joe Sestak campaign Eric Swalwell campaign Marianne Williamson campaign Libertarian Party Primaries Convention Candidates Declared Ken Armstrong Jim Gray Jo Jorgensen Adam Kokesh John McAfee campaign John Monds Sam Robb Vermin Supreme campaign Arvin Vohra Withdrawn Max Abramson Zoltan Istvan Lincoln Chafee campaign Mark Whitney Green Party Primaries Convention Results Candidates Declared Howie Hawkins campaign Sedinam Moyowasifza-Curry Dario Hunter Expressed interest Jesse Ventura Independent candidates Candidates Declared Perry Caravello Mark Charles Pete Accetturo Withdrawn Jeremy Gable Ronnie Kroell Other third-party candidates American Solidarity Party Nominee Brian T. Carroll Other candidates Joe Schriner Bread and Roses Nominee Jerome Segal Constitution Party Primaries Declared Don Blankenship Socialism and Liberation Nominee Gloria La Riva VP Nominee Leonard Peltier Peace and Freedom Nominee Gloria La Riva Other candidates Howie Hawkins Reform Party Darcy Richardson Socialist Action Nominee Jeff Mackler Socialist Equality Party Nominee Joseph Kishore Socialist Party USA Nominee Howie Hawkins campaign Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Gloria_La_Riva&oldid=950059815" Categories: 1954 births Living people 20th-century American politicians 21st-century American politicians 21st-century American women politicians American activists American anti–Iraq War activists American communists American documentary filmmakers American politicians of Mexican descent Anti-poverty advocates Brandeis University alumni Candidates in the 2018 United States elections Female United States presidential candidates Female United States vice presidential candidates Hispanic and Latino American women in politics Party for Socialism and Liberation politicians Peace and Freedom Party politicians Politicians from Albuquerque, New Mexico Candidates in the 1992 United States presidential election Candidates in the 2008 United States presidential election Candidates in the 2012 United States presidential election Candidates in the 2016 United States presidential election Candidates in the 2020 United States presidential election 1984 United States vice-presidential candidates 1988 United States vice-presidential candidates 1996 United States vice-presidential candidates 2000 United States vice-presidential candidates Women in California politics Workers World Party presidential nominees Workers World Party vice presidential nominees Women documentary filmmakers Hidden categories: Articles with short description Commons category link from Wikidata Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages تۆرکجه Čeština Español Simple English 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 10 April 2020, at 01:06 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view