https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eugene_Puryear
Eugene Puryear - Wikipedia
Eugene Puryear From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search American journalist, author, activist, and politician Eugene Puryear Personal details Born (1986-02-28) February 28, 1986 (age 34) Charlottesville, Virginia, U.S. Political party D.C. Statehood Green Party, Party for Socialism and Liberation Alma mater Howard University Occupation Journalist, activist Eugene Puryear (born February 28, 1986 in Charlottesville, Virginia) is an American journalist, author, activist, and politician. In 2014, he was a candidate for the at-large seat in the DC Council with the D.C. Statehood Green Party. In the 2008 and 2016 United States presidential elections, Puryear was the vice presidential nominee of the Party for Socialism and Liberation (PSL).[1] Contents 1 Campaign for Council of the District of Columbia 2 Journalism 3 Activism 4 Vice presidential campaigns 5 References 6 Further reading 7 External links Campaign for Council of the District of Columbia[edit] In 2014, Puryear ran as a D.C. Statehood Green Party candidate for the At-Large City Council seat held at the time by Anita Bonds.[2] His campaign put forward a 10-point program, which describes some of the policy positions taken by Puryear. On April 1, 2014, Puryear won the party's nomination, defeating G. Lee Aikin, 67.3% to 25.1%.[3] On November 4, 2014, Puryear placed sixth out of 14 candidates in the general election.[4] Journalism[edit] Puryear wrote the book Shackled and Chained: Mass Incarceration in Capitalist America, which was published by PSL Publications.[5] He is also the host of the daily political talk show By Any Means Necessary, on Radio Sputnik.[6][7] Puryear writes regularly for Liberation News, the newspaper of the Party for Socialism and Liberation.[8] He has co-edited some of the PSL's books, such as Imperialism in the 21st Century: Updating Lenin’s Theory a Century Later.[9] Activism[edit] Puryear studied at Howard University, where he became a lead organizer with the anti-war ANSWER coalition[10] and has helped organize large protests against the Israeli blockade of Gaza.[11] Puryear and the ANSWER coalition were involved in the campaign to free the Jena 6.[12] As a freshman at Howard in 2005, Puryear was interviewed by The Washington Post as an "activist-in-training" and cited his engagement with activism against gentrification, racism, the US occupation of Iraq and other issues.[13] In November 2010, RT interviewed Puryear regarding socialism in the United States. He has also appeared on RT to discuss U.S. foreign policy and the Middle East.[14] Puryear has been deeply involved in the Black Lives Matter movement.[15] Vice presidential campaigns[edit] In 2008, Puryear ran on the Party for Socialism and Liberation's ticket alongside presidential nominee Gloria La Riva. The La Riva/Puryear slate was on the ballot in six states and received 6,818 total votes.[16] In July 2015, Puryear was announced as the running mate of Gloria La Riva, the Party for Socialism and Liberation's 2016 presidential nominee. However, he was not eligible to hold the office, as he would not have been at least 35 years old by Inauguration Day.[17] He was a critic of the Democratic presidential candidates Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders.[18] References[edit] ^ Meet Eugene Puryear Archived 2008-05-01 at the Wayback Machine at pslweb.org, accessed 9 June 2008, ^ Sommer, Will (January 30, 2014). "Ward Candidates Meet in First Debate". Washington City Paper. Retrieved 24 February 2014. ^ "April 1, 2014 Primary Election Results". Archived from the original on April 12, 2014. Retrieved April 2, 2014. ^ "November 4, 2014 General Election Results". Archived from the original on December 20, 2015. Retrieved December 7, 2014. ^ "New Book - Shackled and Chained: Mass Incarceration in Capitalist America". ANSWER Coalition. Retrieved 2017-02-07. ^ "By Any Means Necessary". Sputnik News. Retrieved 7 February 2017. ^ "By Any Means Necessary". Spreaker. Retrieved 7 February 2017. ^ "Eugene Puryear". Liberation News. Retrieved 7 February 2017. ^ Party for Socialism and Liberation (2015). Imperialism in the 21st Century: Updating Lenin’s Theory a Century Later. Liberation Media. pp. Copyright page. ISBN 978-0-9910303-2-3. ^ Johnson, Jenna (August 16, 2007). "Antiwar Group Refuses To Back Down on Signs". Washington Post. Retrieved 18 November 2011. ^ "Thousands descend on White House to protest Gaza war". Agence France-Presse. January 9, 2009. Retrieved 18 November 2011. ^ Simmons, Christine. "'Jena 6' protesters demand action by Justice Department". The Herald Journal. Associated Press. Retrieved 18 November 2011. ^ Pierre, Robert E. (February 22, 2005). "Rekindling Howard U.'s Activist Fire". Washington Post. Retrieved 18 November 2011. ^ "'US policy in the Middle East is extremely reckless, leading to deeper war tension'". RT International. Retrieved 2017-02-07. ^ Sommer, Will (3 September 2015). "Activist Judged: Eugene Puryear Reinvents Himself As One of the Mayor's Newest Foes". Washington City Paper. Retrieved 2017-02-07. ^ Winger, Richard. "Party for Socialism and Liberation Announces Presidential Nominee". Ballot-access.org. Retrieved 3 December 2011. ^ Winger, Richard (July 24, 2015). "Party for Socialism and Liberation Announces 2016 Presidential Ticket". Ballot Access News. Retrieved July 25, 2015. ^ Ball, Molly (May 2016). "The Socialist Case Against Bernie". The Atlantic. Retrieved 1 November 2016. Further reading[edit] Miller, Talea (August 2, 2007). "Iraq War Impacts Enrollment of Blacks in Military". PBS. Retrieved December 2, 2011. "Thousands descend on White House to protest Gaza war". Channelnewsasia.com. January 11, 2009. Retrieved December 2, 2011. Ball, Molly (May 2016). "The Socialist Case Against Bernie". The Atlantic. External links[edit] PSL 2016 campaign website D.C. City Council 2014 campaign website v t e (2004 ←) 2008 United States presidential election (→ 2012) 2008 United States elections Candidates Comparison Debates Congressional support Fundraising Ballot access Timeline Super Tuesday Potomac primary Super Tuesday II General polls Statewide general polls International polls International reaction Democratic Party Convention Primary polls General polls Debates Primaries Primary results Superdelegates Democratic candidates Nominee Barack Obama campaign positions endorsements Republican VP nominee Joe Biden positions Other candidates: Evan Bayh campaign Joe Biden campaign positions Hillary Clinton campaign positions endorsements Chris Dodd campaign John Edwards campaign positions Mike Gravel campaign Dennis Kucinich campaign Bill Richardson campaign Tom Vilsack campaign Republican Party Convention Primary polls General polls Debates Political positions Primaries Primary results Republican candidates Nominee John McCain campaign positions endorsements Democratic VP nominee Sarah Palin candidacy positions Other candidates: Sam Brownback John H. Cox Jim Gilmore campaign Rudy Giuliani campaign positions Mike Huckabee campaign positions Duncan L. Hunter campaign Alan Keyes campaign Ray McKinney Ron Paul campaign positions Mitt Romney campaign positions Tom Tancredo campaign Fred Thompson campaign Tommy Thompson campaign Draft movements Democratic Party Al Gore Mark Warner (movement) Republican Party Newt Gingrich Condoleezza Rice (movement) Independent Michael Bloomberg (movement) Third party and independent candidates Constitution Party Convention Nominee Chuck Baldwin (campaign) VP nominee Darrell Castle Candidates Daniel Imperato Alan Keyes campaign Green Party Convention Nominee Cynthia McKinney campaign positions VP nominee Rosa Clemente Candidates Elaine Brown Jesse Johnson Kent Mesplay Kat Swift Libertarian Party Convention Nominee Bob Barr campaign positions VP nominee Wayne Allyn Root Candidates Mike Gravel campaign Daniel Imperato Michael Jingozian Steve Kubby Wayne Allyn Root Mary Ruwart Doug Stanhope America's Independent Party Nominee Alan Keyes (campaign) VP nominee Brian Rohrbough Boston Tea Party Nominee Charles Jay Objectivist Party Nominee Tom Stevens Peace and Freedom Party Nominee Ralph Nader campaign VP nominee Matt Gonzalez Candidates: Gloria La Riva Cynthia McKinney campaign Brian Moore campaign Prohibition Party Nominee Gene Amondson Reform Party Nominee Ted Weill VP nominee Frank McEnulty Socialism and Liberation Party Nominee Gloria La Riva VP nominee Eugene Puryear Socialist Party Nominee Brian Moore (campaign) VP nominee Stewart Alexander Candidates Eric Chester Socialist Workers Party Nominee Róger Calero Alternate nominee James Harris VP nominee Alyson Kennedy Independent / Other Jeff Boss Stephen Colbert Earl Dodge Bradford Lyttle Frank Moore Joe Schriner Jonathon Sharkey Other 2008 elections: House Senate Gubernatorial v t e (2012 ←) 2016 United States presidential election (→ 2020) 2016 United States elections Fundraising Political positions Polls national demographically statewide pre 2016 Jan–Aug 2016 international Social media Timeline General election debates Newspaper endorsements primary Vote pairing Recounts Russian interference Faithless electors Republican Party Debates and forums Endorsements Primaries Results Convention Polls national statewide straw Candidates (VP) Nominee Donald Trump campaign endorsements primary positions protests Republican opposition VP nominee: Mike Pence Other candidates Jeb Bush campaign positions Ben Carson campaign Chris Christie campaign Ted Cruz campaign endorsements positions Mark Everson Jack Fellure Carly Fiorina campaign Jim Gilmore campaign Lindsey Graham campaign Mike Huckabee campaign positions Bobby Jindal campaign John Kasich campaign endorsements Josue Larose Dennis Michael Lynch Andy Martin Jimmy McMillan George Pataki campaign Rand Paul campaign positions Rick Perry campaign positions Marco Rubio campaign positions Rick Santorum campaign Scott Walker campaign Democratic Party Political positions Endorsements Debates and forums Primaries Results Superdelegates Convention Polls national statewide straw Candidates (VP) Nominee Hillary Clinton campaign endorsements political non-political positions Democratic opposition VP nominee: Tim Kaine Other candidates Jeff Boss Harry Braun Lincoln Chafee campaign Rocky De La Fuente campaign Paul T. Farrell Jr. Keith Judd Lawrence Lessig campaign Martin O'Malley campaign Bernie Sanders campaign endorsements positions Sam Sloan Michael Steinberg Vermin Supreme Jim Webb campaign Robby Wells Willie Wilson John Wolfe Jr. Libertarian Party Debates and forums Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Gary Johnson campaign endorsements positions VP nominee: Bill Weld Other candidates John McAfee Austin Petersen Darryl W. Perry Vermin Supreme Green Party Debates and forums Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Jill Stein campaign endorsements VP nominee: Ajamu Baraka Other candidates Darryl Cherney Sedinam Kinamo Christin Moyowasifza Curry Constitution Party Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Darrell Castle campaign VP nominee: Scott Bradley Other candidates Tom Hoefling Independent Better for America Evan McMullin campaign endorsements Mindy Finn Other third-party and independent candidates American Delta Party Rocky De La Fuente campaign VP nominee: Michael Steinberg American Party of South Carolina Peter Skewes American Solidarity Party Mike Maturen America's Party Wiley Drake James Hedges Tom Hoefling Nutrition Party Rod Silva Party for Socialism and Liberation Gloria La Riva VP nominee: Eugene Puryear* Peace and Freedom Party Gloria La Riva VP nominee: Dennis Banks Other candidates Monica Moorehead Jill Stein Prohibition Party James Hedges Reform Party Rocky De La Fuente campaign VP nominee: Michael Steinberg Other candidates Darcy Richardson Socialist Action Jeff Mackler Socialist Equality Party Jerry White Socialist Party USA Mimi Soltysik campaign VP nominee: Angela Nicole Walker Socialist Workers Party Alyson Kennedy VP nominee: Osborne Hart United States Pacifist Party Bradford Lyttle Workers World Party Monica Moorehead Independent candidates Laurence Kotlikoff * : These candidates are constitutionally ineligible to serve as President or Vice President. Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Eugene_Puryear&oldid=951852176" Categories: 1986 births Living people African-American United States vice presidential candidates American anti–Iraq War activists American communists D.C. Statehood Green Party politicians Howard University alumni Party for Socialism and Liberation politicians Writers from Charlottesville, Virginia 2008 United States vice-presidential candidates 21st-century American politicians 2016 United States vice-presidential candidates Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links Articles with short description Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages تۆرکجه 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 19 April 2020, at 07:13 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view