https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alyson_Kennedy
Alyson Kennedy - Wikipedia
Alyson Kennedy From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Alyson Kennedy Personal details Born (1950-06-11) June 11, 1950 (age 69) Indianapolis, Indiana, United States Political party Socialist Workers Party Alyson Kennedy (born June 11, 1950) is an American activist, a member of the Socialist Workers Party (SWP). She was a candidate in the 2019 Dallas mayoral election. She was the SWP's nominee for Vice President in the 2008 United States presidential election, President in the 2016 United States presidential election as well as their nominee for President in 2020. Contents 1 Biography 1.1 Early life and candidacies 1.2 2008 Presidential election 1.3 2016 Presidential election 1.4 2019 Dallas mayoral election 1.5 2020 Presidential election 2 References 3 External links Biography[edit] Early life and candidacies[edit] Originally from Indianapolis, Kennedy joined the socialist movement in 1973 in Louisville, Kentucky. She has worked in coal mines in Alabama, Colorado, Utah, and West Virginia. Today she works at a Walmart in Dallas.[1] In 1977 she ran as the SWP candidate for mayor of Cleveland, Ohio against incumbent Republican Ralph Perk, garnering 1,225 votes and losing by a wide margin to Dennis Kucinich.[2] She first joined the United Mine Workers of America (UMWA) in 1981, and was one of the leaders of a strike in Utah 2004,[3] also being involved in litigation.[4] In 2000, she ran for United States Senate as a certified write-in candidate in a race prompted by the death of candidate and former Governor of Missouri Mel Carnahan.[5] 2008 Presidential election[edit] As the Vice-Presidential nominee of two parties, Kennedy ran a campaign focused on the youth.[6] There were two different candidates at the head of the ticket, Roger Calero and James Harris; Harris was an alternate in some states because Calero was constitutionally ineligible because he is a lawful permanent resident of the United States (holding a green card), and not a US citizen. They were the first pair to qualify for the ballot in Louisiana[7] Calero/Kennedy won 5,127 votes and Harris/Kennedy 2,424.[8] 2016 Presidential election[edit] On February 12, 2016, Kennedy was announced as the nominee for president on the Socialist Workers Party ticket alongside Osborne Hart.[9] Kennedy is the second woman to be the presidential nominee of the SWP, following Linda Jenness.[10] She was on the ballot in seven states: Utah, Louisiana, Colorado, Minnesota, Tennessee, Washington and New Jersey.[11] 2019 Dallas mayoral election[edit] In January 2019, Kennedy declared her candidacy in the 2019 Dallas mayoral election,[12] advocating for the improvement of the public transit system, a public jobs program to provide "union-scale wages", and for the Dallas Police Department to address claims of police brutality, pointing to the killing of Botham Jean as an example of such claims.[12] She received 469 votes and finished in last place. 2020 Presidential election[edit] In February 2020, Kennedy was announced as her party's nominee for President. Her Vice-Presidential nominee is Malcolm Jarrett, an African-American activist and cook from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.[13] The two kicked off their campaign with speeches at campaign headquarters in Dallas on February 8.[1] References[edit] ^ a b Shinneman, Shawn (February 5, 2020). "Behold the Dallas-Based Underdog Candidate of the 2020 Presidential Election". D Magazine. Retrieved February 16, 2020. ^ "Cleveland Election Upsets Perk". Daytona Beach Morning Journal. 53 (238). October 5, 1977. Retrieved January 18, 2010. ^ Erickson, Tiffany (July 3, 2004). "Miners plan to return to their jobs". Deseret News. Retrieved January 18, 2010. ^ "INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF UNITED WORKERS UNION v. United Mine Workers of America, Dist. Court, D. Utah, Central Div. 2005". Retrieved January 18, 2010. ^ Sloca, Paul (November 4, 2000). "State election officials seek to clarify Carnahan". Southeast Missourian. 4A. Retrieved January 18, 2010. ^ Russell, Julia (October 24, 2008). "Airing 'Excluded' Third Party Views". The Diamondback. Archived from the original on February 27, 2012. Retrieved January 18, 2010. ^ Chacko, Sarah (August 12, 2008). "Socialist Workers Party runs presidential candidate in La". The Advocate. 8A. Retrieved January 18, 2010. ^ "2008 Official Presidential General Election Results" (PDF). FEC.gov. January 22, 2009. ^ "Join the Socialist Workers Party 2016 US presidential campaign!". The Militant. Retrieved February 13, 2016. ^ Winger, Richard (February 13, 2016). "Socialist Workers Party Announces National Ticket". Retrieved February 13, 2016. ^ Powell, Chris (August 3, 2016). "Who is on the presidential ballot where?". Retrieved September 9, 2016. ^ a b "A 2016 presidential candidate is running for Dallas mayor". Dallas News. January 14, 2019. Retrieved January 16, 2019. ^ "Meet the SWP candidates: Alyson Kennedy & Malcolm Jarrett" (Vol. 85. No. 5). The Militant. February 1, 2020. Retrieved February 16, 2020. External links[edit] "Alyson Kennedy, Socialist Workers Party candidate for U.S. vice president", The Militant, January 14, 2008 (accessed February 15, 2008). Party political offices Preceded by Arrin Hawkins Socialist Workers Party nominee for Vice Presidential 2008 Succeeded by Maura DeLuca Preceded by James Harris Roger Calero Socialist Workers Party nominee for President of the United States 2016/2020 Succeeded by TBD v t e (2004 ←) 2008 United States presidential election (→ 2012) 2008 United States elections Candidates Comparison Debates Congressional support Fundraising Ballot access Timeline Super Tuesday Potomac primary Super Tuesday II General polls Statewide general polls International polls International reaction Democratic Party Convention Primary polls General polls Debates Primaries Primary results Superdelegates Democratic candidates Nominee Barack Obama campaign positions endorsements Republican VP nominee Joe Biden positions Other candidates: Evan Bayh campaign Joe Biden campaign positions Hillary Clinton campaign positions endorsements Chris Dodd campaign John Edwards campaign positions Mike Gravel campaign Dennis Kucinich campaign Bill Richardson campaign Tom Vilsack campaign Republican Party Convention Primary polls General polls Debates Political positions Primaries Primary results Republican candidates Nominee John McCain campaign positions endorsements Democratic VP nominee Sarah Palin candidacy positions Other candidates: Sam Brownback John H. Cox Jim Gilmore campaign Rudy Giuliani campaign positions Mike Huckabee campaign positions Duncan L. Hunter campaign Alan Keyes campaign Ray McKinney Ron Paul campaign positions Mitt Romney campaign positions Tom Tancredo campaign Fred Thompson campaign Tommy Thompson campaign Draft movements Democratic Party Al Gore Mark Warner (movement) Republican Party Newt Gingrich Condoleezza Rice (movement) Independent Michael Bloomberg (movement) Third party and independent candidates Constitution Party Convention Nominee Chuck Baldwin (campaign) VP nominee Darrell Castle Candidates Daniel Imperato Alan Keyes campaign Green Party Convention Nominee Cynthia McKinney campaign positions VP nominee Rosa Clemente Candidates Elaine Brown Jesse Johnson Kent Mesplay Kat Swift Libertarian Party Convention Nominee Bob Barr campaign positions VP nominee Wayne Allyn Root Candidates Mike Gravel campaign Daniel Imperato Michael Jingozian Steve Kubby Wayne Allyn Root Mary Ruwart Doug Stanhope America's Independent Party Nominee Alan Keyes (campaign) VP nominee Brian Rohrbough Boston Tea Party Nominee Charles Jay Objectivist Party Nominee Tom Stevens Peace and Freedom Party Nominee Ralph Nader campaign VP nominee Matt Gonzalez Candidates: Gloria La Riva Cynthia McKinney campaign Brian Moore campaign Prohibition Party Nominee Gene Amondson Reform Party Nominee Ted Weill VP nominee Frank McEnulty Socialism and Liberation Party Nominee Gloria La Riva VP nominee Eugene Puryear Socialist Party Nominee Brian Moore (campaign) VP nominee Stewart Alexander Candidates Eric Chester Socialist Workers Party Nominee Róger Calero Alternate nominee James Harris VP nominee Alyson Kennedy Independent / Other Jeff Boss Stephen Colbert Earl Dodge Bradford Lyttle Frank Moore Joe Schriner Jonathon Sharkey Other 2008 elections: House Senate Gubernatorial v t e (2012 ←) 2016 United States presidential election (→ 2020) 2016 United States elections Fundraising Political positions Polls national demographically statewide pre 2016 Jan–Aug 2016 international Social media Timeline General election debates Newspaper endorsements primary Vote pairing Recounts Russian interference Faithless electors Republican Party Debates and forums Endorsements Primaries Results Convention Polls national statewide straw Candidates (VP) Nominee Donald Trump campaign endorsements primary positions protests Republican opposition VP nominee: Mike Pence Other candidates Jeb Bush campaign positions Ben Carson campaign Chris Christie campaign Ted Cruz campaign endorsements positions Mark Everson Jack Fellure Carly Fiorina campaign Jim Gilmore campaign Lindsey Graham campaign Mike Huckabee campaign positions Bobby Jindal campaign John Kasich campaign endorsements Josue Larose Dennis Michael Lynch Andy Martin Jimmy McMillan George Pataki campaign Rand Paul campaign positions Rick Perry campaign positions Marco Rubio campaign positions Rick Santorum campaign Scott Walker campaign Democratic Party Political positions Endorsements Debates and forums Primaries Results Superdelegates Convention Polls national statewide straw Candidates (VP) Nominee Hillary Clinton campaign endorsements political non-political positions Democratic opposition VP nominee: Tim Kaine Other candidates Jeff Boss Harry Braun Lincoln Chafee campaign Rocky De La Fuente campaign Paul T. Farrell Jr. Keith Judd Lawrence Lessig campaign Martin O'Malley campaign Bernie Sanders campaign endorsements positions Sam Sloan Michael Steinberg Vermin Supreme Jim Webb campaign Robby Wells Willie Wilson John Wolfe Jr. Libertarian Party Debates and forums Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Gary Johnson campaign endorsements positions VP nominee: Bill Weld Other candidates John McAfee Austin Petersen Darryl W. Perry Vermin Supreme Green Party Debates and forums Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Jill Stein campaign endorsements VP nominee: Ajamu Baraka Other candidates Darryl Cherney Sedinam Kinamo Christin Moyowasifza Curry Constitution Party Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Darrell Castle campaign VP nominee: Scott Bradley Other candidates Tom Hoefling Independent Better for America Evan McMullin campaign endorsements Mindy Finn Other third-party and independent candidates American Delta Party Rocky De La Fuente campaign VP nominee: Michael Steinberg American Party of South Carolina Peter Skewes American Solidarity Party Mike Maturen America's Party Wiley Drake James Hedges Tom Hoefling Nutrition Party Rod Silva Party for Socialism and Liberation Gloria La Riva VP nominee: Eugene Puryear* Peace and Freedom Party Gloria La Riva VP nominee: Dennis Banks Other candidates Monica Moorehead Jill Stein Prohibition Party James Hedges Reform Party Rocky De La Fuente campaign VP nominee: Michael Steinberg Other candidates Darcy Richardson Socialist Action Jeff Mackler Socialist Equality Party Jerry White Socialist Party USA Mimi Soltysik campaign VP nominee: Angela Nicole Walker Socialist Workers Party Alyson Kennedy VP nominee: Osborne Hart United States Pacifist Party Bradford Lyttle Workers World Party Monica Moorehead Independent candidates Laurence Kotlikoff * : These candidates are constitutionally ineligible to serve as President or Vice President. v t e (2016 ←) 2020 United States presidential election (→ 2024) 2020 United States elections Polls national state Timeline Republican Party Primaries Results Debates Convention Polls Endorsements Candidates Presumptive nominee Donald Trump campaign endorsements positions Other candidates Rocky De La Fuente campaign Withdrawn during primaries Joe Walsh campaign Bill Weld campaign Withdrawn before primaries Mark Sanford campaign Democratic Party Primaries Candidates Debates Forums Results Convention Polls national state Political positions Endorsements Candidates Presumptive nominee Joe Biden campaign endorsements positions Withdrawn during primaries Michael Bennet campaign Michael Bloomberg campaign endorsements positions Pete Buttigieg campaign endorsements positions Tulsi Gabbard campaign positions Amy Klobuchar campaign endorsements positions Deval Patrick campaign Bernie Sanders campaign endorsements positions media coverage Tom Steyer campaign Elizabeth Warren campaign endorsements positions Andrew Yang campaign endorsements Withdrawn before primaries Cory Booker campaign endorsements positions Steve Bullock campaign Julian Castro campaign Bill de Blasio campaign John Delaney campaign positions Kirsten Gillibrand campaign positions Mike Gravel campaign Kamala Harris campaign endorsements John Hickenlooper campaign Jay Inslee campaign Wayne Messam campaign Seth Moulton campaign Richard Ojeda campaign Beto O'Rourke campaign Tim Ryan campaign Joe Sestak campaign Eric Swalwell campaign Marianne Williamson campaign Libertarian Party Primaries Convention Candidates Declared Ken Armstrong Jim Gray Jo Jorgensen Adam Kokesh John McAfee campaign John Monds Sam Robb Vermin Supreme campaign Arvin Vohra Withdrawn Max Abramson Zoltan Istvan Lincoln Chafee campaign Mark Whitney Green Party Primaries Convention Results Candidates Declared Howie Hawkins campaign Sedinam Moyowasifza-Curry Dario Hunter Expressed interest Jesse Ventura Independent candidates Candidates Declared Perry Caravello Mark Charles Pete Accetturo Withdrawn Jeremy Gable Ronnie Kroell Other third-party candidates American Solidarity Party Nominee Brian T. Carroll Other candidates Joe Schriner Bread and Roses Nominee Jerome Segal Constitution Party Primaries Declared Don Blankenship Socialism and Liberation Nominee Gloria La Riva VP Nominee Leonard Peltier Peace and Freedom Nominee Gloria La Riva Other candidates Howie Hawkins Reform Party Darcy Richardson Socialist Action Nominee Jeff Mackler Socialist Equality Party Nominee Joseph Kishore Socialist Party USA Nominee Howie Hawkins campaign v t e Socialist Workers Party (United States) National Secretaries James P. Cannon (1938–1953) Farrell Dobbs (1953–1972) Jack Barnes (1972–present) Presidential tickets 1948: Dobbs/Carlson 1952: Dobbs/Weiss 1956: Dobbs/Weiss 1960: Dobbs/Weiss 1964: DeBerry/Shaw 1968: Halstead/Boutelle 1972: Jenness/Pulley+Reed/DeBerry 1976: Camejo/Reid 1980: DeBerry/Zimmermann+Pulley/Zimmermann+Congress/Zimmermann 1984: Mason/Zimmermann 1988: Warren/Mickells 1992: Warren/Reid 1996: Harris/Garza 2000: Harris/Trowe 2004: Calero/Hawkins+Harris/Trowe 2008: Calero/Kennedy+Harris/Kennedy 2012: Harris/DeLuca 2016: Kennedy/Hart 2016: Kennedy/Jarrett Parties by state and territory District of Columbia Related topics History of the socialist movement in the United States Pathfinder tendency The Militant Trotskyism Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Alyson_Kennedy&oldid=949371088" Categories: 1950 births Living people Female United States vice presidential candidates Female United States presidential candidates American communists Candidates in the 2016 United States presidential election Candidates in the 2020 United States presidential election 2008 United States vice-presidential candidates 21st-century American politicians Socialist Workers Party (United States) vice presidential nominees Women in Missouri politics Politicians from Cleveland Politicians from Indianapolis 21st-century American women politicians Hidden categories: Use mdy dates from January 2019 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages تۆرکجه Հայերեն Русский 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 6 April 2020, at 03:02 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view