https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Osborne_Hart
Osborne Hart - Wikipedia
Osborne Hart From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Osborne Hart (born 1952) is an American socialist activist. Hart was the vice-presidential nominee of the Socialist Workers Party in the 2016 presidential election. He has run for several other offices, including for mayor of Philadelphia in 2015.[1] Hart's father was a career soldier and he traveled extensively as a youth. His activism began in the 1960s during the Civil Rights Movement. He has also been active in the solidarity movement with socialist Cuba and other political movements.[2] References[edit] ^ "63-Year-Old Walmart Employee Makes His Case For Philadelphia Mayor". KYW-TV. August 3, 2015. Retrieved 14 February 2016. ^ "The SWP candidates". The Militant. February 22, 2016. Retrieved 14 February 2016. v t e (2012 ←) 2016 United States presidential election (→ 2020) 2016 United States elections Fundraising Political positions Polls national demographically statewide pre 2016 Jan–Aug 2016 international Social media Timeline General election debates Newspaper endorsements primary Vote pairing Recounts Russian interference Faithless electors Republican Party Debates and forums Endorsements Primaries Results Convention Polls national statewide straw Candidates (VP) Nominee Donald Trump campaign endorsements primary positions protests Republican opposition VP nominee: Mike Pence Other candidates Jeb Bush campaign positions Ben Carson campaign Chris Christie campaign Ted Cruz campaign endorsements positions Mark Everson Jack Fellure Carly Fiorina campaign Jim Gilmore campaign Lindsey Graham campaign Mike Huckabee campaign positions Bobby Jindal campaign John Kasich campaign endorsements Josue Larose Dennis Michael Lynch Andy Martin Jimmy McMillan George Pataki campaign Rand Paul campaign positions Rick Perry campaign positions Marco Rubio campaign positions Rick Santorum campaign Scott Walker campaign Democratic Party Political positions Endorsements Debates and forums Primaries Results Superdelegates Convention Polls national statewide straw Candidates (VP) Nominee Hillary Clinton campaign endorsements political non-political positions Democratic opposition VP nominee: Tim Kaine Other candidates Jeff Boss Harry Braun Lincoln Chafee campaign Rocky De La Fuente campaign Paul T. Farrell Jr. Keith Judd Lawrence Lessig campaign Martin O'Malley campaign Bernie Sanders campaign endorsements positions Sam Sloan Michael Steinberg Vermin Supreme Jim Webb campaign Robby Wells Willie Wilson John Wolfe Jr. Libertarian Party Debates and forums Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Gary Johnson campaign endorsements positions VP nominee: Bill Weld Other candidates John McAfee Austin Petersen Darryl W. Perry Vermin Supreme Green Party Debates and forums Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Jill Stein campaign endorsements VP nominee: Ajamu Baraka Other candidates Darryl Cherney Sedinam Kinamo Christin Moyowasifza Curry Constitution Party Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Darrell Castle campaign VP nominee: Scott Bradley Other candidates Tom Hoefling Independent Better for America Evan McMullin campaign endorsements Mindy Finn Other third-party and independent candidates American Delta Party Rocky De La Fuente campaign VP nominee: Michael Steinberg American Party of South Carolina Peter Skewes American Solidarity Party Mike Maturen America's Party Wiley Drake James Hedges Tom Hoefling Nutrition Party Rod Silva Party for Socialism and Liberation Gloria La Riva VP nominee: Eugene Puryear* Peace and Freedom Party Gloria La Riva VP nominee: Dennis Banks Other candidates Monica Moorehead Jill Stein Prohibition Party James Hedges Reform Party Rocky De La Fuente campaign VP nominee: Michael Steinberg Other candidates Darcy Richardson Socialist Action Jeff Mackler Socialist Equality Party Jerry White Socialist Party USA Mimi Soltysik campaign VP nominee: Angela Nicole Walker Socialist Workers Party Alyson Kennedy VP nominee: Osborne Hart United States Pacifist Party Bradford Lyttle Workers World Party Monica Moorehead Independent candidates Laurence Kotlikoff * : These candidates are constitutionally ineligible to serve as President or Vice President. v t e Socialist Workers Party (United States) National Secretaries James P. Cannon (1938–1953) Farrell Dobbs (1953–1972) Jack Barnes (1972–present) Presidential tickets 1948: Dobbs/Carlson 1952: Dobbs/Weiss 1956: Dobbs/Weiss 1960: Dobbs/Weiss 1964: DeBerry/Shaw 1968: Halstead/Boutelle 1972: Jenness/Pulley+Reed/DeBerry 1976: Camejo/Reid 1980: DeBerry/Zimmermann+Pulley/Zimmermann+Congress/Zimmermann 1984: Mason/Zimmermann 1988: Warren/Mickells 1992: Warren/Reid 1996: Harris/Garza 2000: Harris/Trowe 2004: Calero/Hawkins+Harris/Trowe 2008: Calero/Kennedy+Harris/Kennedy 2012: Harris/DeLuca 2016: Kennedy/Hart 2016: Kennedy/Jarrett Parties by state and territory District of Columbia Related topics History of the socialist movement in the United States Pathfinder tendency The Militant Trotskyism This article about a Pennsylvania politician is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it. v t e Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Osborne_Hart&oldid=949511610" Categories: 1952 births Living people African-American United States vice presidential candidates Socialist Workers Party (United States) vice presidential nominees Socialist Workers Party (United States) politicians from Pennsylvania Politicians from Philadelphia 2016 United States vice-presidential candidates Pennsylvania politician stubs Hidden categories: All stub articles Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages العربية 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 6 April 2020, at 22:02 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view