https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Workers_World_Party
Workers World Party - Wikipedia
Workers World Party From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Political party in the USA Workers World Party First Secretary Larry Holmes Founded 1959; 61 years ago (1959) Headquarters 147 W. 24th St. 2nd Fl. New York City, New York 10011 Newspaper Workers World Youth wing Fight Imperialism–Stand Together Ideology Communism Marxism–Leninism Proletarian internationalism Political position Far-left Colors Red Website workers.org Politics of United States Political parties Elections The Workers World Party (WWP) is a revolutionary Marxist–Leninist political party in the United States[1] founded in 1959 by a group led by Sam Marcy of the Socialist Workers Party (SWP).[2] Marcy and his followers split from the SWP in 1958 over a series of long-standing differences, among them their support for Henry A. Wallace's Progressive Party in 1948, the positive view they held of the Chinese Revolution led by Mao Zedong and their defense of the 1956 Soviet intervention in Hungary, all of which the SWP opposed. The WWP describes itself as a party that has since its founding "supported the struggles of all oppressed peoples". It has recognized the right of nations to self-determination, including the nationally oppressed peoples inside the United States. It supports affirmative action as necessary in the fight for equality and it opposes all forms of racism and religious bigotry. The WWP and its affiliate Youth Against War and Fascism (YAWF) were noted for their consistent defense of the Black Panthers, the Weather Underground, the Vietnam Veterans Against the War and the Puerto Rican Independence movement. The WWP was also an early advocate of gay rights and remains especially active in this area. The WWP has published Workers World since 1959. The newspaper has been a weekly since 1974. Contents 1 History 2 Activities and organizational structure 3 North Korea 4 Controversy 5 Splits 6 Presidential tickets 7 Notable members 8 References 9 Sources 10 Further reading 11 External links History[edit] Part of a series on Socialism in the United States History Utopian socialism Bishop Hill Commune Brook Farm Icarians Looking Backward New Harmony Oneida Community Progressive Era 1877 St. Louis general strike 1912 Lawrence textile strike Catholic Worker Movement Green Corn Rebellion Labor unionization Haymarket affair May Day Women's suffrage Repression and persecution American Defense Society American Protective League Communist Party USA and African Americans Communists in the labor movement 1919–1937 1937–1957 Espionage Act of 1917 First Red Scare John Birch Society McCarthyism Seattle General Strike Smith Act Smith Act trials Anti-war and civil rights movements Black Power movement COINTELPRO Great Society "I Have a Dream" March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom New Left Poor People's Campaign War on Poverty Contemporary 1999 Seattle WTO protests Financial crisis of 2007–08 Occupy Wall Street People Abern Andrews Avrich Balagroon Barnes Bellamy (Edward) Bellamy (Francis) Berger Berkman Bookchin Browder Cabet Cannon Carmichael Carter Chomsky Clayre Davis Day Debs De Leon Dobbs Dreiser Du Bois Einstein Fearing Ford Foster Galleani Gitlow Goldman Greene Guthrie Hall Hammett Harrington Hay Haywood (Bill) Haywood (Harry) Hawkins Hedges Heywood (Angela) Heywood (Ezra) Hill Hillquit Hoan Hoffman Keller King Labadie London Lovestone Lum McReynolds Mitchell Most Newton Ocasio-Cortez Ochs Oswald Owen Parsons (Albert) Parsons (Lucy) Randolph Ripley Reed Rocker Rustin Ruthenberg Sacco Sandburg Sanders Sawant Seale Seidel Shachtman Sinclair Spooner Sweezy Thomas Tlaib Tucker Vanzetti Warren West Wolff Zeidler Zerzan Active organizations American Party of Labor Black Riders Liberation Party Colorado Springs Socialists Committees of Correspondence for Democracy and Socialism Communist Party USA Democratic Socialists of America Freedom Road Socialist Organization Freedom Socialist Party Industrial Workers of the World Legal Marijuana Now Party New Afrikan Black Panther Party New Students for a Democratic Society Party for Socialism and Liberation Peace and Freedom Party Progressive Labor Party Redneck Revolt Revolutionary Communist Party, USA Social Democrats, USA Socialist Action Socialist Alternative Socialist Equality Party Socialist Party USA Socialist Rifle Association Socialist Workers Party Spartacist League Workers World Party World Socialist Party of the United States Defunct organizations American Labor Party American Workers Party Black Panther Party Communist League of America Communist Workers' Party Democratic Socialist Federation Democratic Socialist Organizing Committee Farmer–Labor Party International Socialist Organization Maoist Internationalist Movement New American Movement Proletarian Party of America Puerto Rican Socialist Party Social Democracy of America Social Democratic Federation Social Democratic Party of America Socialist Labor Party of America Socialist Party of America Students for a Democratic Society Weather Underground White Panther Party Workers Party of the United States Youth International Party Literature Appeal to Reason Daily Worker International Socialist Review The Jungle Looking Backward Monopoly Capital Monthly Review The Other America Voluntary Socialism Why Socialism? Related topics American Left Anarchism Anarchism in the United States Anarcho-communism Anarcho-primitivism Anarcho-syndicalism Democratic socialism Green anarchism Individualist anarchism Individualist anarchism in the United States Labor history Labor laws Labor unions Libertarian socialism Marxism Marxism–Leninism Minimum wage Mutualism Post-left anarchy Scientific socialism Social democracy Socialism Utopian socialism Socialism portal United States portal v t e The WWP had its origins in the Global Class War Tendency, led by Sam Marcy and Vincent Copeland, within the SWP. This group crystallized during the 1948 presidential election when they urged the SWP to back Henry Wallace's Progressive Party campaign, rather than field their own candidates. Throughout the 1950s, the Global Class War Tendency expressed positions at odds with official SWP policy, categorizing the Korean War as a class, rather than imperialist, conflict; support of the People's Republic of China as a workers' state, if not necessarily supporting the Mao Zedong leadership; and supporting the suppression of the Hungarian Revolution by the Soviet Union in 1956.[3] The Global Class War Tendency left the SWP in early 1959. Although they would later abandon Trotskyism,[citation needed] in their International Workers Day issue (no. 3) of their new periodical the group proclaimed: "We are THE Trotskyists. We stand 100% with all the principled positions of Leon Trotsky, the most revolutionary communist since Lenin". The nascent group appears to have organized as the Workers World Party by February 1960.[4] At its inception, the WWP was concentrated among the working class in Buffalo, Youngstown, Seattle and New York. A youth organization, first known as the Anti-Fascist Youth Committee and later as Youth Against War and Fascism (YAWF), was created in April 1962.[5] From the beginning, the WWP and YAWF concentrated their energies on street demonstrations. Early campaigns focused on support of Patrice Lumumba, opposition to the House Un-American Activities Committee and against racial discrimination in housing. They conducted the first protest against American involvement in Vietnam on August 2, 1962.[6] Their opposition to the war also included the tactics of "draft resistance" and "GI resistance". After organizing demonstrations at Fort Sill, Oklahoma in support of a soldier being tried for possessing anti-war literature, they founded the American Servicemen's Union, intended to be a mass organization of American soldiers. However, the group was completely dominated by the WWP and YAWF.[7] During the late 1960s and 1970s, the party threw itself into protests for a number of other causes, including "defen[se] of the heroic black uprisings in Watts, Newark, Detroit, Harlem" and women's liberation. During the Attica Prison riot, the rioters requested YAWF member Tom Soto to present their grievances for them. The WWP was most successful in organizing demonstrations in support of desegregation "busing" in the Boston schools in 1975. Nearly 30,000 people attended the Boston March Against Racism which they had organized. During the 1970s, they also attempted to begin work inside organized labor, but apparently were not very successful.[8] In 1980, the WWP began to participate in electoral politics, naming a presidential ticket as well as candidates for New York Senate, congressional and state legislature seats. In California, they ran their candidate Deirdre Griswold in the primary for the Peace and Freedom Party nomination. They came in last with 1,232 votes out of 9,092. In 1984, the WWP supported Jesse Jackson's bid for the Democratic nomination, but when he lost in the primaries they nominated their own presidential ticket, along with a handful of congressional and legislative nominees.[9] Activities and organizational structure[edit] Members staffing a WWP information booth at Occupy Wall Street, October 2011 The WWP has organized, directed or participated in many coalition organizations for various causes, typically anti-imperialist in nature. The International Action Center, which counts many WWP members as leading activists, founded the Act Now to Stop War and End Racism (ANSWER) coalition shortly after the September 11 attacks in 2001 and has run both the All People's Congress (APC) and the International Action Center (IAC) for many years. The APC and the IAC in particular share a large degree of overlap in their memberships with cadre in the WWP. In 2004, a youth group close to the WWP called Fight Imperialism Stand Together (FIST) was founded.[citation needed] The WWP has participated in presidential election campaigns since the 1980 election, though its effectiveness in this area is limited as it has not been able to get on the ballots of many states. The party also has run some campaigns for other offices. One of the most successful was in 1990, when Susan Farquhar got on the ballot as a Senate candidate in Michigan and received 1.3% of the vote. However, the party's best result was in the 1992 Ohio Senate election, when the WWP candidate received 6.7% of the vote, running against a Democrat and a Republican.[10] North Korea[edit] The WWP has maintained a position of support for the government of North Korea. Through its Vietnam-era front organization, the American Servicemen's Union (ASU), the party endorsed a 1971 statement of support for that government. The statement was read on North Korea's international radio station by visiting ASU delegate Andy Stapp.[11] In 1994, Sam Marcy sent a letter to Kim Jong-il expressing his condolences on behalf of the WWP on the death of his father Kim Il-sung, calling him a great leader and comrade in the international communist movement.[12] Its more recent front groups, IAC and formerly International A.N.S.W.E.R., have also demonstrated in support of North Korea.[13] Controversy[edit] When the WWP was playing a role in organizing anti-war protests before the invasion of Iraq in 2003, many newspapers and TV shows attacked the WWP specifically for supporting the Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein.[14][15][16] Splits[edit] WWP protesters in January 2017 In 1968, the WWP absorbed a small faction of the Spartacist League that had worked with it in the Coalition for an Anti-Imperialist Movement called the Revolutionary Communist League (Internationalist). This group left the WWP in 1971 as the New York Revolutionary Committee. The NYRC's newspaper provided rare details about the internal functioning of the group that have subsequently been used by scholars as a primary source. The NYRC later reconstituted as the Revolutionary Communist League (Internationalist).[17] In 2004, the WWP suffered its most serious split when the San Francisco branch and some other members left to form the Party for Socialism and Liberation.[18][19] In July 2018, the WWP experienced another schism in which one of its oldest branches, the Detroit branch, resigned from the organization along with several other branches to form the Communist Workers League.[20][21] Presidential tickets[edit] Year President Alternate in some states Vice President Votes Notes 1980 Deirdre Griswold Gavrielle Holmes 13,213 1984 Larry Holmes Gavrielle Holmes Gloria La Riva 17,983 Larry and Gavrielle respectively received 15,327 and 2,656 votes 1988 7,846 1992 Gloria La Riva Larry Holmes 181 1996 Monica Moorehead Gloria La Riva 29,083 2000 4,795 2004 John Parker Teresa Gutierrez 1,646 Includes 265 votes on the Liberty Union Party line in Vermont 2008 Endorsed Cynthia McKinney Endorsed Rosa Clemente 161,797 No nominee of their own; endorsed the Green Party of the United States 2012 - - - No nominee 2016 Monica Moorehead Lamont Lilly 4,173 Source:[22] Notable members[edit] Vince Copeland, actor Leslie Feinberg, author Sara Flounders, activist Sam Marcy, author References[edit] ^ "Workers World Party: Who We Are". Workers World Party website. Retrieved May 23, 2019. ^ "Selected Works of Sam Marcy". Workers World. Retrieved October 2, 2008. ^ Alexander 1991, p. 911. ^ Alexander 1973, p. 554. ^ Alexander 1991, p. 912. ^ Klehr, Harvey (1988). Far Left of Center. ^ Alexander 1991, pp. 912–913. ^ Alexander 1991, p. 913. ^ Alexander 1991, p. 914. ^ "Vote for U.S. Senate". Ballot Access News. January 1, 2003. Retrieved September 22, 2008. ^ "Workers World Party and Its Front Organizations" (April 1974) US House Committee on Internal Security ^ Marcy, Sam (July 21, 1994). "Kim Il Sung – Anti-imperialist fighter, socialist hero". ^ Carlson, Peter (December 15, 2002). "The Crusader: Ramsey Clark Was LBJ's Attorney General. Now He's Busy Denouncing U.S. 'War Crimes' in Places Like Iraq, N. Korea. How Did That Happen?". The Washington Post. ^ Cooper, Marc (September 29, 2002). "A Smart Peace Movement is MIA". Los Angeles Times. ^ Gitlin, Todd (October 14, 2002). "Who Will Lead?". Mother Jones. ^ Corn, David (November 1, 2002). "Behind the Placards: The odd and troubling origins of today's antiwar movement". LA Weekly. ^ Alexander 1991, pp. 913, 941–943, 1049. ^ "Founding statement of the Party for Socialism and Liberation". Liberation School. August 1, 2004. Retrieved August 20, 2018. ^ Freedlander, David (October 13, 2015). "Bernie Sanders Isn't Socialist Enough for Many Socialists". Bloomberg. Retrieved August 20, 2018. ^ "Detroit branch resignation from WWP". The Former Workers World Party. July 15, 2018. Archived from the original on September 29, 2018. Retrieved September 28, 2018. ^ "Communist Workers League". Facebook. July 15, 2018. Retrieved September 28, 2018. ^ "Election Results (1984–present)". Federal Elections Commission. "Election Results (1980)". Office of the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives. Sources[edit] Committee on Internal Security, House of Representatives (1974). The Workers World Party and Its Front Organizations. Washington: United States Congress.CS1 maint: ref=harv (link) Alexander, Robert (1991). International Trotskyism: a documented analysis of the world movement. Durham: Duke University Press.CS1 maint: ref=harv (link) Alexander, Robert (1973). "Schisms and unifications in the American Old Left 1953–1970". Labor History. 14 (Fall 1973).CS1 maint: ref=harv (link) Further reading[edit] Ken Lawrence (January 1999). "Roots of the Workers World Party". Marxmail Discussion List. Retrieved April 12, 2005. "Politics 1 Guide to US Political parties". It contains brief entry on WWP. "A Clarification on Sam Marcy and Henry Wallace". A correspondence on the early history of the Global Class War tendency. Kevin Coogan. "'Peace Activists' with a Secret Agenda Part Three: Stealth Trotskyism and the Mystery of the WWP". External links[edit] Workers.org. Official website. Fight Imperialism–Stand Together. Youth group affiliated with Workers World Party. Sam Marcy (1979). The Global Class War and the Destiny of American Labor. New Haven, Connecticut: Revolutionary Communist League (Internationalist). A foundational document of the Global Class War tendency. V. Grey New York (November 3, 1956). The Class Character of the Hungarian Uprising: Proposed Resolution on the Class Character of the Hungarian Uprising. Reissued by Workers World in 1959. Another foundational document of the Global Class War tendency. v t e National political parties in the United States List of political parties in the United States Major parties Democratic Republican Third parties Larger 1 Constitution Green Libertarian Smaller 2 American (1969) American Freedom American Solidarity Citizens Communist Freedom Socialist Humane Justice Legal Marijuana Now Marijuana Pirate Prohibition Reform Socialism and Liberation Socialist (1973) Socialist Action Socialist Alternative Socialist Equality Socialist Workers Working Families Workers World Defunct parties Major parties Democratic-Republican Federalist National Republican Whig Third parties American (Know Nothing) American (1924) American Nazi American Vegetarian Americans Elect Anti-Masonic Black Panther Boston Tea Citizens Communist Workers' Constitution (1952) Constitutional Union Democratic-Republican (1844) Farmer–Labor Free Soil Modern Whig Gold Democrats Greenback Independence (1906) Independence (2007) Labor (1919) Labor (1996) Liberal Republican Liberty (1840) National Renaissance National Socialist National States' Rights National Union (1864) Natural Law New Alliance New Union Nullifier Opposition Populist (People's) Personal Choice Populist Progressive (1912) Progressive (1924) Progressive (1948) Radical Democracy Raza Unida Readjuster Red Guard Silver Silver Republican Social Democratic Socialist (1901) Socialist Labor States Rights (Dixiecrat) Traditionalist Worker Unconditional Union Union (1936) Unionist (1850s/60s) U.S. Labor White Patriot Workers Youth International 1 Recognized as a major national party by the FEC 2 Not recognized as a major national party by the FEC State and local political parties (without national body) Presidential nominating conventions Politics of the United States Politics portal v t e Current communist parties in the United States Marxist-Leninist American Party of Labor Communist Party USA Communist Party USA (Provisional) Freedom Road Socialist Organization New Afrikan Black Panther Party Party for Socialism and Liberation Progressive Labor Party Revolutionary Communist Party, USA U.S. Marxist–Leninist Organization Trotskyist Freedom Socialist Party Socialist Action Socialist Alternative Socialist Equality Party Solidarity Other All-African People's Revolutionary Party Liberation Road Socialist Workers Party Workers World Party Communism portal List of communist parties Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Workers_World_Party&oldid=953603397" Categories: Workers World Party Communist parties in the United States Far-left politics in the United States 1959 establishments in the United States Hidden categories: Articles with short description All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from January 2018 Articles with unsourced statements from December 2014 CS1 maint: ref=harv Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Français Português Svenska 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 28 April 2020, at 02:38 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view