https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monica_Moorehead
Monica Moorehead - Wikipedia
Monica Moorehead From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Monica Gail Moorehead Born 1952 (age 67–68) Tuscaloosa, Alabama, US Occupation Political activist Monica Gail Moorehead (born 1952) is an American retired teacher, writer, and political activist. She was the presidential nominee of the Workers World Party (WWP) in 1996, 2000, and 2016. Biography[edit] A political activist since high school, Moorehead distributed newspapers for the Black Panther Party and subsequently joined the WWP in 1972. She rose to the national leadership in 1979. Her presidential campaign in 1996 received around 29,000 votes. In 2000 she received 4,795 votes; that year she was only on the ballot in Florida, Rhode Island, Washington, and Wisconsin.[1] On both occasions, her vice-presidential running-mate was Gloria La Riva. In an open letter (entitled "Blame Monica!"), posted on his website shortly after the U.S. presidential election of 2000, filmmaker and activist Michael Moore sarcastically argued that Moorehead, not supporters of Ralph Nader like himself, were responsible for the election of George W. Bush.[2] Other works include being the author of Feminism and Marxism in the 90s and South Africa: Which Road to Liberation? She also edited the book Marxism, Reparations, and the Black Freedom Struggle, a collection of articles from Workers World newspaper, written by herself and others. In 2004, Moorehead was one of the campaign managers for the party's presidential candidate, John Parker. During the 2008 presidential campaign, she endorsed Green Party candidate, Cynthia McKinney.[3] On November 8, 2015, Moorehead received the 2016 presidential nomination of the Workers World Party.[4] Her running mate was Lamont Lilly.[4] References[edit] ^ 2000 Official Presidential General Election Results. Federal Electoral Commission. ^ Moore, Michael (November 17, 2000), "Blame (the other) Monica!", St. Petersburg Times — compiled by Mike Wilson, Floridian. ^ "Open Letter to Politically Conscious Sisters and Brothers of Black America". All Things Cynthia McKinney. Archived from the original on 16 December 2014. Retrieved 16 December 2014. ^ a b "Workers World Party Nominates Monica Moorehead for President". Independent Political Report. November 9, 2015. Retrieved November 16, 2015. External links[edit] Appearances on C-SPAN "Letter from Campaign Manager", Workers World Party Presidential Campaign Committee "Blame Monica!" by Michael Moore Party political offices Preceded by Gloria La Riva Workers World Party Presidential candidate 1996 (lost), 2000 (lost) Succeeded by John Parker v t e (1992 ←) 1996 United States presidential election (→ 2000) Democratic Party Convention Primaries Nominee Bill Clinton positions VP nominee Al Gore Candidates James D. Griffin Lyndon LaRouche campaign positions Pat Paulsen Republican Party Convention Primaries Nominee Bob Dole VP nominee Jack Kemp Candidates Lamar Alexander Pat Buchanan Charles E. Collins Bob Dornan Jack Fellure Arthur Fletcher Steve Forbes Phil Gramm Alan Keyes Richard Lugar Isabell Masters Jimmy McMillan Tennie Rogers Arlen Specter Morry Taylor Pete Wilson Reform Party Primaries Nominee Ross Perot VP nominee Pat Choate Candidates Richard Lamm Other Third party and independent candidates Green Party Convention Nominee Ralph Nader (campaign) VP nominee Winona LaDuke Independent Grassroots Party Nominee John Birrenbach VP nominee George McMahon Libertarian Party Convention Nominee Harry Browne VP nominee Jo Jorgensen Candidates Irwin Schiff Natural Law Party Nominee John Hagelin VP nominee Mike Tompkins Prohibition Party Nominee Earl Dodge VP nominee Rachel Bubar Kelly Socialist Party Nominee Mary Cal Hollis VP nominee Eric Chester Socialist Workers Party Nominee James Harris U.S. Taxpayers Party Nominee Howard Phillips VP nominee Herb Titus Workers World Party Nominee Monica Moorehead VP nominee Gloria La Riva Independents and other candidates Joan Jett Blakk Marsha Feinland Isabell Masters Steve Michael Dennis Peron Other 1996 elections House Senate Gubernatorial v t e (1996 ←) 2000 United States presidential election (→ 2004) General election results Florida results Republican Party Convention Primaries Nominee George W. Bush campaign positions VP nominee Dick Cheney Candidates Lamar Alexander Gary Bauer Pat Buchanan campaign Herman Cain positions Elizabeth Dole Jack Fellure Steve Forbes Orrin Hatch John Kasich campaign positions Alan Keyes campaign Andy Martin John McCain campaign positions Dan Quayle Bob Smith Democratic Party Convention Primaries Nominee Al Gore campaign VP nominee Joe Lieberman positions Candidates Bill Bradley campaign Lyndon LaRouche campaign positions Constitution Party Convention Nominee Howard Phillips VP nominee Curtis Frazier Candidates Herb Titus Green Party Convention Nominee Ralph Nader campaign VP nominee Winona LaDuke Candidates Jello Biafra Stephen Gaskin Joel Kovel Libertarian Party Convention Nominee Harry Browne campaign VP nominee Art Olivier Candidates Barry Hess L. Neil Smith Reform Party Primaries Nominee Pat Buchanan campaign VP nominee Ezola B. Foster Candidates John Hagelin Donald Trump campaign positions Natural Law Party Nominee John Hagelin VP nominee Nat Goldhaber Prohibition Party Nominee Earl Dodge VP nominee W. Dean Watkins Socialist Party Nominee David McReynolds VP nominee Mary Cal Hollis Socialist Workers Party Nominee James Harris VP nominee Margaret Trowe Workers World Party Nominee Monica Moorehead VP nominee Gloria La Riva Independent Cathy Gordon Brown Charles E. Collins Isabell Masters Joe Schriner Florida election recount and legal proceedings Key figures Katherine Harris Jeb Bush David Boies Theodore Olson James Baker Ron Klain Warren Christopher Michael Whouley Benjamin Ginsberg Bob Butterworth Joe Allbaugh Mac Stipanovich Craig Waters Theresa LePore Carol Roberts Election day Florida Central Voter File (scrub list) Volusia error Chad Butterfly ballot Aftermath and legal proceedings Florida election recount Brooks Brothers riot Palm Beach County Canvassing Board v. Harris (Harris I) Gore v. Harris (Harris II) Bush v. Palm Beach County Canvassing Board Bush v. Gore Films Recount (2008) Bush Family Fortunes (2004) Unprecedented: The 2000 Presidential Election (2002) Other 2000 elections House Senate Gubernatorial v t e (2012 ←) 2016 United States presidential election (→ 2020) 2016 United States elections Fundraising Political positions Polls national demographically statewide pre 2016 Jan–Aug 2016 international Social media Timeline General election debates Newspaper endorsements primary Vote pairing Recounts Russian interference Faithless electors Republican Party Debates and forums Endorsements Primaries Results Convention Polls national statewide straw Candidates (VP) Nominee Donald Trump campaign endorsements primary positions protests Republican opposition VP nominee: Mike Pence Other candidates Jeb Bush campaign positions Ben Carson campaign Chris Christie campaign Ted Cruz campaign endorsements positions Mark Everson Jack Fellure Carly Fiorina campaign Jim Gilmore campaign Lindsey Graham campaign Mike Huckabee campaign positions Bobby Jindal campaign John Kasich campaign endorsements Josue Larose Dennis Michael Lynch Andy Martin Jimmy McMillan George Pataki campaign Rand Paul campaign positions Rick Perry campaign positions Marco Rubio campaign positions Rick Santorum campaign Scott Walker campaign Democratic Party Political positions Endorsements Debates and forums Primaries Results Superdelegates Convention Polls national statewide straw Candidates (VP) Nominee Hillary Clinton campaign endorsements political non-political positions Democratic opposition VP nominee: Tim Kaine Other candidates Jeff Boss Harry Braun Lincoln Chafee campaign Rocky De La Fuente campaign Paul T. Farrell Jr. Keith Judd Lawrence Lessig campaign Martin O'Malley campaign Bernie Sanders campaign endorsements positions Sam Sloan Michael Steinberg Vermin Supreme Jim Webb campaign Robby Wells Willie Wilson John Wolfe Jr. Libertarian Party Debates and forums Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Gary Johnson campaign endorsements positions VP nominee: Bill Weld Other candidates John McAfee Austin Petersen Darryl W. Perry Vermin Supreme Green Party Debates and forums Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Jill Stein campaign endorsements VP nominee: Ajamu Baraka Other candidates Darryl Cherney Sedinam Kinamo Christin Moyowasifza Curry Constitution Party Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Darrell Castle campaign VP nominee: Scott Bradley Other candidates Tom Hoefling Independent Better for America Evan McMullin campaign endorsements Mindy Finn Other third-party and independent candidates American Delta Party Rocky De La Fuente campaign VP nominee: Michael Steinberg American Party of South Carolina Peter Skewes American Solidarity Party Mike Maturen America's Party Wiley Drake James Hedges Tom Hoefling Nutrition Party Rod Silva Party for Socialism and Liberation Gloria La Riva VP nominee: Eugene Puryear* Peace and Freedom Party Gloria La Riva VP nominee: Dennis Banks Other candidates Monica Moorehead Jill Stein Prohibition Party James Hedges Reform Party Rocky De La Fuente campaign VP nominee: Michael Steinberg Other candidates Darcy Richardson Socialist Action Jeff Mackler Socialist Equality Party Jerry White Socialist Party USA Mimi Soltysik campaign VP nominee: Angela Nicole Walker Socialist Workers Party Alyson Kennedy VP nominee: Osborne Hart United States Pacifist Party Bradford Lyttle Workers World Party Monica Moorehead Independent candidates Laurence Kotlikoff * : These candidates are constitutionally ineligible to serve as President or Vice President. Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Monica_Moorehead&oldid=952768022" Categories: 1952 births Living people African-American United States presidential candidates American women writers American communists Communist women writers Female United States presidential candidates Politicians from Tuscaloosa, Alabama Candidates in the 1996 United States presidential election Candidates in the 2000 United States presidential election 20th-century American politicians Candidates in the 2016 United States presidential election 21st-century American politicians Workers World Party presidential nominees 21st-century American women politicians African-American communists Hidden categories: Articles with hCards Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages تۆرکجه 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 24 April 2020, at 00:19 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view