https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Angela_Nicole_Walker
Angela Nicole Walker - Wikipedia
Angela Nicole Walker From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search For other people named Angela Walker, see Angela Walker (disambiguation). Angela Nicole Walker Personal details Born January 19, 1974 (1974-01-19) (age 46) Milwaukee, Wisconsin, U.S. Political party Socialist Residence Milwaukee, Wisconsin Alma mater University of North Florida Occupation Labor organizer Angela Nicole Walker (born January 19, 1974) is an American school bus driver and labor organizer from Wisconsin. Walker was the vice-presidential nominee of the Socialist Party USA for the 2016 election alongside former SPUSA male co-chair Mimi Soltysik of California.[1] Walker previously ran in 2014 as an independent socialist for sheriff of Milwaukee County, Wisconsin.[2] She received approximately 67,000 votes (21%) against incumbent Democrat and Fox News pundit David A. Clarke, Jr. During her campaign for sheriff, Walker called for an end to mass incarceration, evictions and anti-immigrant policing.[2] In March 2015, Walker was recognized by OnMilwaukee.com as a Milwaukee All-Star for her activism.[3] Contents 1 Background 2 Vice-presidential campaign 3 References 4 External links Background[edit] Angela Walker was born and raised in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, where she lived primarily on the inner city Northside neighborhood. Walker graduated from Bay View High School. While in high school, Walker helped organize students in support of a Black History course at Bay View, which was successful.[4] She studied history at the University of North Florida but dropped out in her final year because she "could make more money as a bus driver than" as a teacher.[2] She then worked for two years as a driver for Greyhound Lines. Describing her life as an "odyssey", Walker then moved to North Carolina, where she married and back to Florida. She finally moved back to Milwaukee in 2009 and was hired as a driver for the Milwaukee County Transit System. In 2011, she became legislative director for her local in the Amalgamated Transit Union (ATU), which represented transit system drivers; her position coincided with the rise of the anti-labor union Tea Party and the election of Scott Walker as Wisconsin's 45th Governor. Walker was active in the Occupy movement, which the ATU supported. Walker stepped down from the legislative director position in October 2013. Walker divorced from her husband in 2014. Walker worked as a bus driver for over 14 years.[3] Vice-presidential campaign[edit] Main article: Mimi Soltysik presidential campaign, 2016 In March 2016, Walker stated that she had been recruited to be the Socialist Party USA vice-presidential nominee by future running-mate, Mimi Soltysik following her campaign for sheriff. Walker and Soltysik were nominated at the Socialist Party National Convention in Walker's hometown of Milwaukee, Wisconsin in October 2015.[5] Soltysik-Walker appeared on the ballot in Colorado, Guam and Michigan as well as official write-in candidates in many other states during the general election. References[edit] ^ Shannon, Brooke. ""Town Hall" Interview with Socialist Party USA's Vice Presidential Candidate Angela Nicole Walker". The Socialist. Retrieved 2 December 2015. ^ a b c Pollock, Tracey (June 18, 2014). "Angela Walker, "Free Range Socialist," Runs for Sheriff in Milwaukee". Retrieved 2 December 2015. ^ a b "Milwaukee All-Star: Activist Angela Walker". OnMilwaukee.com. March 29, 2015. Retrieved 16 October 2016. ^ Carico, John (June 18, 2016). "Interview With Socialist Party USA Vice Presidential Candidate Angela Walker". The Fifth Column News. Retrieved 16 October 2016. ^ Winger, Richard (2015-10-17). "Socialist Party National Ticket Nominated". Ballot Access News. Retrieved 2016-05-10. External links[edit] Angela for Sheriff Soltysik-Walker campaign site Party political offices Preceded by Alejandro Mendoza Socialist Party Vice Presidential candidate 2016 Succeeded by TBD v t e Socialist Party USA National Co-Chairs Jennifer Rampollo Presidential tickets 1976, Zeidler/Brisben 1980, McReynolds/Drufenbrock 1988, Kenoyer/Ehrenreich 1992, Brisben/Garson 1996, Hollis/Chester 2000, McReynolds/Hollis 2004, Brown/Herbert 2008, Moore/Alexander 2012, Alexander/Mendoza 2016, Soltysik/Walker 2020, Hawkins Parties by state and territory State Michigan New Jersey Related topics History of the socialist movement in the United States Socialist Party of America Young People's Socialist League Democratic socialism Socialist feminism v t e (2012 ←) 2016 United States presidential election (→ 2020) 2016 United States elections Fundraising Political positions Polls national demographically statewide pre 2016 Jan–Aug 2016 international Social media Timeline General election debates Newspaper endorsements primary Vote pairing Recounts Russian interference Faithless electors Republican Party Debates and forums Endorsements Primaries Results Convention Polls national statewide straw Candidates (VP) Nominee Donald Trump campaign endorsements primary positions protests Republican opposition VP nominee: Mike Pence Other candidates Jeb Bush campaign positions Ben Carson campaign Chris Christie campaign Ted Cruz campaign endorsements positions Mark Everson Jack Fellure Carly Fiorina campaign Jim Gilmore campaign Lindsey Graham campaign Mike Huckabee campaign positions Bobby Jindal campaign John Kasich campaign endorsements Josue Larose Dennis Michael Lynch Andy Martin Jimmy McMillan George Pataki campaign Rand Paul campaign positions Rick Perry campaign positions Marco Rubio campaign positions Rick Santorum campaign Scott Walker campaign Democratic Party Political positions Endorsements Debates and forums Primaries Results Superdelegates Convention Polls national statewide straw Candidates (VP) Nominee Hillary Clinton campaign endorsements political non-political positions Democratic opposition VP nominee: Tim Kaine Other candidates Jeff Boss Harry Braun Lincoln Chafee campaign Rocky De La Fuente campaign Paul T. Farrell Jr. Keith Judd Lawrence Lessig campaign Martin O'Malley campaign Bernie Sanders campaign endorsements positions Sam Sloan Michael Steinberg Vermin Supreme Jim Webb campaign Robby Wells Willie Wilson John Wolfe Jr. Libertarian Party Debates and forums Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Gary Johnson campaign endorsements positions VP nominee: Bill Weld Other candidates John McAfee Austin Petersen Darryl W. Perry Vermin Supreme Green Party Debates and forums Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Jill Stein campaign endorsements VP nominee: Ajamu Baraka Other candidates Darryl Cherney Sedinam Kinamo Christin Moyowasifza Curry Constitution Party Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Darrell Castle campaign VP nominee: Scott Bradley Other candidates Tom Hoefling Independent Better for America Evan McMullin campaign endorsements Mindy Finn Other third-party and independent candidates American Delta Party Rocky De La Fuente campaign VP nominee: Michael Steinberg American Party of South Carolina Peter Skewes American Solidarity Party Mike Maturen America's Party Wiley Drake James Hedges Tom Hoefling Nutrition Party Rod Silva Party for Socialism and Liberation Gloria La Riva VP nominee: Eugene Puryear* Peace and Freedom Party Gloria La Riva VP nominee: Dennis Banks Other candidates Monica Moorehead Jill Stein Prohibition Party James Hedges Reform Party Rocky De La Fuente campaign VP nominee: Michael Steinberg Other candidates Darcy Richardson Socialist Action Jeff Mackler Socialist Equality Party Jerry White Socialist Party USA Mimi Soltysik campaign VP nominee: Angela Nicole Walker Socialist Workers Party Alyson Kennedy VP nominee: Osborne Hart United States Pacifist Party Bradford Lyttle Workers World Party Monica Moorehead Independent candidates Laurence Kotlikoff * : These candidates are constitutionally ineligible to serve as President or Vice President. Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Angela_Nicole_Walker&oldid=945962164" Categories: 1974 births Living people Politicians from Milwaukee University of North Florida alumni Women in Wisconsin politics African-American women in politics Socialist Party USA vice presidential nominees Socialist Party USA politicians from Wisconsin African-American United States vice presidential candidates 2016 United States vice-presidential candidates African-American people in Wisconsin politics Female United States vice presidential candidates 21st-century American women politicians 21st-century American politicians Labor unionists from Wisconsin Amalgamated Transit Union people Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 17 March 2020, at 05:37 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view