https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tom_Hoefling
Tom Hoefling - Wikipedia
Tom Hoefling From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Tom Hoefling Personal details Born (1960-12-20) December 20, 1960 (age 59) Omaha, Nebraska, U.S. Political party America's (Before 2013, 2016-2019) Republican (2013–2016, 2019-) Tom Hoefling Thomas Conrad Hoefling (born December 20, 1960) is an American activist and politician. He is the founder and national chairman of America's Party[1] and was the party's 2012[2][3] and 2016[citation needed] presidential nominee. Hoefling has served as political director for Alan Keyes' political group America's Revival,[4] and as a representative for the American Conservative Coalition.[5] Biography[edit] In August 2012, the ballot-qualified American Independent Party nominated Hoefling for President.[6] Hoefling was on the ballot in California, Colorado, and Florida. He was also filed as a qualified write-in candidate in Alaska,[7] Connecticut,[8] Delaware, Illinois, Indiana,[9] Kentucky, Michigan, Montana,[10] Ohio, Texas, and West Virginia. Hoefling received 40,624 votes in the general election, or 0.03%, coming in 8th place nationally out of 27 candidates who were on the ballot in at least one state.[11] In December 2013, Hoefling announced his bid for the Republican nomination for Governor of Iowa in the 2014 election.[12] He lost the nomination to incumbent Republican Governor Terry Branstad. He is married to Siena Stone Hoefling, and has ten children; Matthew, Katherine, Timothy, Elijah, Sebastian, Samuel, Grace, Caleb, Jacob, and Ezra.[13] References[edit] ^ Schmit, Ian (October 7, 2009). "America's Independent Party holds caucus meeting". Fort Dodge Messenger. Archived from the original on July 7, 2012. Retrieved March 8, 2012. ^ "Alan Keyes' Party Qualifies for Florida Ballot". Ballot Access News. February 29, 2012. Retrieved March 8, 2012. ^ "Tom Hoefling is the America's Party Presidential Nominee". Independent Political Report. March 7, 2012. Retrieved March 8, 2012. ^ "Obama Naysayers Speak Out". CBS News. June 26, 2009. Retrieved March 8, 2012. ^ Warbis, Mark (May 14, 2000). "Flap continues over controversial voter guide". The Spokesman-Review. Retrieved March 8, 2012. ^ Winger, Richard. "Ballot Access News » Blog Archive » American Independent Party Picks Tom Hoefling for President". Ballot Access News. Retrieved 18 August 2012. ^ "2012 General Official Candidate List : November 6, 2012 General Election Candidate List". Elections.alaska.gov. Retrieved 9 June 2016. ^ [1] ^ "November 6, 2012 General Election" (PDF). In.gov. Retrieved 9 June 2016. ^ "2012 General Election Official Declared Presidential Write-In Candidates : Montana Secretary of State Linda McCulloch" (PDF). Sos.mt.gov. Retrieved 9 June 2016. ^ "US Presidential Election Results". Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections. Retrieved 27 December 2012. ^ Morris, Chuck (December 3, 2013) "Northwest Iowa man challenges Branstad in GOP Race", KMAland.com. Retrieved December 6, 2013. ^ "Tom Hoefling – Biography". Retrieved March 17, 2016. External links[edit] Official website Party political offices Preceded by Alan Keyes America's Party nominee for President of the United States 2012, 2016 Most recent Preceded by Alan Keyes American Independent Party nominee for President of the United States 2012 Succeeded by Donald Trump Preceded by Diane Templin American Party nominee for President of the United States 2016 Most recent v t e (2008 ←) 2012 United States presidential election (→ 2016) Fundraising National polls Statewide polls (pre-2012, early 2012) Timeline General election debates Newspaper endorsements International reactions Hurricane Sandy Democratic Party Convention Primaries Candidates Incumbent nominee Barack Obama campaign endorsements positions Incumbent VP nominee Joe Biden positions Challengers Bob Ely Keith Judd Warren Mosler Darcy Richardson Vermin Supreme Randall Terry John Wolfe Republican Party Convention Primaries Debates Statewide polls National polls Straw polls Candidates Nominee Mitt Romney campaign endorsements positions VP nominee Paul Ryan positions Candidates Michele Bachmann campaign Herman Cain campaign positions Mark Callahan Jack Fellure Newt Gingrich campaign positions Stewart Greenleaf Jon Huntsman campaign Gary Johnson campaign Fred Karger Andy Martin Thaddeus McCotter campaign Jimmy McMillan Roy Moore Ron Paul campaign positions Tim Pawlenty campaign Rick Perry campaign positions Buddy Roemer campaign Rick Santorum campaign Libertarian Party Convention Candidates Nominee Gary Johnson campaign VP nominee Jim Gray Candidates R. J. Harris Carl Person Sam Sloan R. Lee Wrights Green Party Convention Primaries Candidates Nominee Jill Stein campaign VP nominee Cheri Honkala Candidates Stewart Alexander Roseanne Barr Other third-party and independent candidates American Independent Party Nominee Tom Hoefling Candidates Wiley Drake Virgil Goode campaign Edward C. Noonan Laurie Roth American Third Position Party Nominee Merlin Miller VP nominee Virginia Abernethy Constitution Party Convention Nominee Virgil Goode (campaign) VP nominee Jim Clymer Candidates Darrell Castle Laurie Roth Robby Wells Freedom Socialist Party Nominee Stephen Durham Grassroots Party Nominee Jim Carlson Justice Party Nominee Rocky Anderson VP nominee Luis J. Rodriguez Socialism and Liberation Nominee Peta Lindsay Peace and Freedom Party Nominee Roseanne Barr VP nominee Cindy Sheehan Candidates Stewart Alexander Rocky Anderson Stephen Durham Peta Lindsay Prohibition Party Nominee Jack Fellure Candidates James Hedges Reform Party Nominee Andre Barnett Candidates Laurence Kotlikoff Darcy Richardson Buddy Roemer campaign Robby Wells Socialist Equality Party Nominee Jerry White Socialist Workers Party Nominee James Harris Socialist Party Nominee Stewart Alexander (campaign) VP nominee Alejandro Mendoza Independents and others Objectivist Party Tom Stevens Independents Lee Abramson Randy Blythe Jeff Boss Robert Burck Terry Jones Joe Schriner Michael Bloomberg draft Other 2012 elections: House Senate Gubernatorial v t e (2012 ←) 2016 United States presidential election (→ 2020) 2016 United States elections Fundraising Political positions Polls national demographically statewide pre 2016 Jan–Aug 2016 international Social media Timeline General election debates Newspaper endorsements primary Vote pairing Recounts Russian interference Faithless electors Republican Party Debates and forums Endorsements Primaries Results Convention Polls national statewide straw Candidates (VP) Nominee Donald Trump campaign endorsements primary positions protests Republican opposition VP nominee: Mike Pence Other candidates Jeb Bush campaign positions Ben Carson campaign Chris Christie campaign Ted Cruz campaign endorsements positions Mark Everson Jack Fellure Carly Fiorina campaign Jim Gilmore campaign Lindsey Graham campaign Mike Huckabee campaign positions Bobby Jindal campaign John Kasich campaign endorsements Josue Larose Dennis Michael Lynch Andy Martin Jimmy McMillan George Pataki campaign Rand Paul campaign positions Rick Perry campaign positions Marco Rubio campaign positions Rick Santorum campaign Scott Walker campaign Democratic Party Political positions Endorsements Debates and forums Primaries Results Superdelegates Convention Polls national statewide straw Candidates (VP) Nominee Hillary Clinton campaign endorsements political non-political positions Democratic opposition VP nominee: Tim Kaine Other candidates Jeff Boss Harry Braun Lincoln Chafee campaign Rocky De La Fuente campaign Paul T. Farrell Jr. Keith Judd Lawrence Lessig campaign Martin O'Malley campaign Bernie Sanders campaign endorsements positions Sam Sloan Michael Steinberg Vermin Supreme Jim Webb campaign Robby Wells Willie Wilson John Wolfe Jr. Libertarian Party Debates and forums Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Gary Johnson campaign endorsements positions VP nominee: Bill Weld Other candidates John McAfee Austin Petersen Darryl W. Perry Vermin Supreme Green Party Debates and forums Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Jill Stein campaign endorsements VP nominee: Ajamu Baraka Other candidates Darryl Cherney Sedinam Kinamo Christin Moyowasifza Curry Constitution Party Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Darrell Castle campaign VP nominee: Scott Bradley Other candidates Tom Hoefling Independent Better for America Evan McMullin campaign endorsements Mindy Finn Other third-party and independent candidates American Delta Party Rocky De La Fuente campaign VP nominee: Michael Steinberg American Party of South Carolina Peter Skewes American Solidarity Party Mike Maturen America's Party Wiley Drake James Hedges Tom Hoefling Nutrition Party Rod Silva Party for Socialism and Liberation Gloria La Riva VP nominee: Eugene Puryear* Peace and Freedom Party Gloria La Riva VP nominee: Dennis Banks Other candidates Monica Moorehead Jill Stein Prohibition Party James Hedges Reform Party Rocky De La Fuente campaign VP nominee: Michael Steinberg Other candidates Darcy Richardson Socialist Action Jeff Mackler Socialist Equality Party Jerry White Socialist Party USA Mimi Soltysik campaign VP nominee: Angela Nicole Walker Socialist Workers Party Alyson Kennedy VP nominee: Osborne Hart United States Pacifist Party Bradford Lyttle Workers World Party Monica Moorehead Independent candidates Laurence Kotlikoff * : These candidates are constitutionally ineligible to serve as President or Vice President. v t e (2016 ←) 2020 United States presidential election (→ 2024) 2020 United States elections Polls national state Timeline Republican Party Primaries Results Debates Convention Polls Endorsements Candidates Presumptive nominee Donald Trump campaign endorsements positions Other candidates Rocky De La Fuente campaign Withdrawn during primaries Joe Walsh campaign Bill Weld campaign Withdrawn before primaries Mark Sanford campaign Democratic Party Primaries Candidates Debates Forums Results Convention Polls national state Political positions Endorsements Candidates Presumptive nominee Joe Biden campaign endorsements positions Withdrawn during primaries Michael Bennet campaign Michael Bloomberg campaign endorsements positions Pete Buttigieg campaign endorsements positions Tulsi Gabbard campaign positions Amy Klobuchar campaign endorsements positions Deval Patrick campaign Bernie Sanders campaign endorsements positions media coverage Tom Steyer campaign Elizabeth Warren campaign endorsements positions Andrew Yang campaign endorsements Withdrawn before primaries Cory Booker campaign endorsements positions Steve Bullock campaign Julian Castro campaign Bill de Blasio campaign John Delaney campaign positions Kirsten Gillibrand campaign positions Mike Gravel campaign Kamala Harris campaign endorsements John Hickenlooper campaign Jay Inslee campaign Wayne Messam campaign Seth Moulton campaign Richard Ojeda campaign Beto O'Rourke campaign Tim Ryan campaign Joe Sestak campaign Eric Swalwell campaign Marianne Williamson campaign Libertarian Party Primaries Convention Candidates Declared Ken Armstrong Jim Gray Jo Jorgensen Adam Kokesh John McAfee campaign John Monds Sam Robb Vermin Supreme campaign Arvin Vohra Withdrawn Max Abramson Zoltan Istvan Lincoln Chafee campaign Mark Whitney Green Party Primaries Convention Results Candidates Declared Howie Hawkins campaign Sedinam Moyowasifza-Curry Dario Hunter Expressed interest Jesse Ventura Independent candidates Candidates Declared Perry Caravello Mark Charles Pete Accetturo Withdrawn Jeremy Gable Ronnie Kroell Other third-party candidates American Solidarity Party Nominee Brian T. Carroll Other candidates Joe Schriner Bread and Roses Nominee Jerome Segal Constitution Party Primaries Declared Don Blankenship Socialism and Liberation Nominee Gloria La Riva VP Nominee Leonard Peltier Peace and Freedom Nominee Gloria La Riva Other candidates Howie Hawkins Reform Party Darcy Richardson Socialist Action Nominee Jeff Mackler Socialist Equality Party Nominee Joseph Kishore Socialist Party USA Nominee Howie Hawkins campaign This American politician–related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it. v t e Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Tom_Hoefling&oldid=948655300" Categories: 1960 births 21st-century American politicians America's Party (political party) politicians American political activists Iowa Republicans Living people Candidates in the 2012 United States presidential election Candidates in the 2016 United States presidential election Activists from Iowa Candidates in the 2020 United States presidential election American politician stubs Hidden categories: All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from August 2019 All stub articles Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikinews Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages تۆرکجه 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 2 April 2020, at 07:51 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view