https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_Party_of_South_Carolina
American Party of South Carolina - Wikipedia
American Party of South Carolina From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Not to be confused with American Party (1969) or American Party of Florida. American Party of South Carolina Chairperson Jim Rex Founded January 2014; 6 years ago (2014-01) Headquarters Great Falls, South Carolina, U.S. Ideology Centrism National affiliation Alliance Party Seats in the Upper House 0 / 46 Seats in the Lower House 0 / 124 Website http://www.americanpartysc.com/ Politics of South Carolina Elections The American Party of South Carolina is a third party in the United States. Established in 2014, the party is active only in South Carolina. Contents 1 History 2 Platform 3 References 4 See also 5 External links History[edit] The American Party of South Carolina was founded by physician Oscar Lovelace and former South Carolina Superintendent of Education Jim Rex in 2014. According to Rex and Lovelace, their impetus in starting the new party was to present a centrist alternative to the Republican Party and Democratic Party that could address perceived government dysfunction.[1] Rex and Lovelace began collecting the 10,000 petition signatures required for formal party recognition under South Carolina state law during the 2013 South Carolina State Fair. Voter discontent with the United States federal government shutdown of 2013, which coincided with the fair, helped invigorate an unusually robust level of interest in the proposed new party.[2] In 2014, the first year of electoral activity for the party, it unsuccessfully ran four candidates for public office in that year's South Carolina elections.[3][4][5][6][7][8] The same year its youth wing, Young Americans, was established with an inaugural chapter at Winthrop University.[9] The party's 2016 state convention was attended by 61 delegates from nine South Carolina counties, and nominated Peter Skewes as its candidate for president of the United States, as well as candidates for five other offices. As of 2016, the party said it hoped to expand beyond South Carolina and it registered with the Federal Elections Commission the same year.[10][11] On October 14, 2018 a group of successful, independent state political organizations joined together to create The Alliance Party. The American Party of South Carolina is a Founding Member of the Alliance Party. Jim Rex is the National Vice Chair. Platform[edit] According to the party, it supports term limits, campaign finance reform, and "attacking problems from the center instead of the left or the right".[8] References[edit] ^ Hutchins, Corey (9 April 2014). "S.C.'s New Moderate American Party Debuts with Four Candidates for 2014". Free Times. Retrieved 4 August 2016. ^ Hutchins, Corey (26 November 2013). "Government shutdown helps new political party in S.C." Charleston City Paper. Retrieved 4 August 2016. ^ "American Party of South Carolina". ballotpedia.org. Ballotpedia. Retrieved 24 August 2016. ^ "Donna McGreevy". ballotpedia.org. Ballotpedia. Retrieved 24 August 2016. ^ "Ed Murray". ballotpedia.org. Ballotpedia. Retrieved 24 August 2016. ^ "Emile DeFelice". ballotpedia.org. Ballotpedia. Retrieved 24 August 2016. ^ "Jill Bossi". ballotpedia.org. Ballotpedia. Retrieved 24 August 2016. ^ a b Thompson, Scott (30 March 2016). "3 Sun City residents running for office on third-party ticket". Blufton Today. Retrieved 4 August 2016. ^ Street, Lindsay (10 February 2014). "Organizer: New party outnumbers Democrats, Republicans at Winthrop". South Carolina Radio Network. Retrieved 4 August 2016. ^ Arnsdorf, Isaac (28 June 2016). "NFIB nabs Addington". Politico. Retrieved 4 August 2016. ^ Crowder, Mike (15 May 2016). "American Party of SC nominates candidates for a handful of offices". WRHI. Retrieved 4 August 2016. See also[edit] Centrism List of political parties in the United States Third Party (United States) External links[edit] Official website v t e South Carolina political parties Major Democratic Republican Minor Alliance Constitution Green Libertarian United Citizens Political party strength in South Carolina v t e State and local political parties in the United States State and local political parties without a federal or national parent body State parties California American Independent Party Peace and Freedom Party Florida Ecology Party of Florida Independent Party of Florida Michigan Natural Law Party of Michigan Working Class Party Minnesota Grassroots-Legalize Cannabis Party Independence Party of Minnesota New York Conservative Party of New York State New York State Right to Life Party Rent Is Too Damn High Party Serve America Movement Oregon Independent Party of Oregon Oregon Progressive Party South Carolina Alliance Party of South Carolina United Citizens Party Vermont Liberty Union Party Vermont Progressive Party Other states Alaskan Independence Party Independent Party of Connecticut Independent Party of Delaware Bread and Roses (Maryland) United Independent Party (Massachusetts) Moderate Party of Rhode Island United Utah Party Independent Greens of Virginia Local parties Charter Party (Cincinnati, Ohio) Progressive Dane (Dane County, Madison, Wisconsin) Tax Revolt Party (Nassau County, New York) Territorial parties Puerto Rico Movimiento Unión Soberanista (Sovereign Union Movement) New Progressive Party of Puerto Rico Popular Democratic Party Puerto Rican Independence Party Puerto Rican Nationalist Party Puerto Ricans for Puerto Rico Party Working People's Party of Puerto Rico U.S. Virgin Islands Independent Citizens Movement Northern Mariana Islands Covenant Party National political parties in the United States Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=American_Party_of_South_Carolina&oldid=939763546" Categories: Political parties established in 2014 Political parties in South Carolina Centrist political parties in the United States United States regional and state political parties Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages العربية Edit links This page was last edited on 8 February 2020, at 15:50 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view