https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peter_Skewes
Peter Skewes - Wikipedia
Peter Skewes From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Peter Skewes Born 1957 (age 62–63) Glastonbury, Connecticut, United States Citizenship United States Education University of New Haven (B.S.) University of Florida (M.S.) Virginia Tech (Ph.D.) Occupation University Professor Employer Clemson University Known for Candidate in the 2016 United States presidential election Political party American Party of South Carolina Spouse(s) Teresa Website peterforpresident.us Peter Skewes (born 1957) is an American university professor and political activist best known for his candidacy for president of the United States as the nominee of the American Party of South Carolina in the 2016 presidential election. Contents 1 Early life and education 2 Career 2.1 Academia 2.2 Politics 3 Personal life 4 References Early life and education[edit] Skewes was born in Glastonbury, Connecticut, and earned a Bachelor of Science degree in forensic science from the University of New Haven in 1979, going on to receive a Master of Science in Poultry Physiology from the University of Florida in 1982 and a Ph.D. in Animal Physiology from Virginia Tech in 1985.[1][2] He was the 1985 recipient of the Graduate Student Research Manuscript Award from the Poultry Science Association.[3] Career[edit] Academia[edit] Skewes began teaching animal and veterinary science at Clemson University in 1985; there, he studies animal welfare issues and the behavior of domestic animals.[4][5] At Clemson, in addition to his teaching and research duties, Skewes served as chair of the university's Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee.[6] Skewes also serves on the editorial board of the scholarly journal Poultry Science.[3] Politics[edit] In May 2016 Skewes won the nomination of the American Party of South Carolina in a three-way contest; the party had been founded in 2014 by former South Carolina Superintendent of Education Jim Rex.[7] According to Skewes, he was motivated to run for president because, for the first time in his life he was "not going to be able to vote for the president with a clear conscience", regardless of which of the Democratic or Republican candidates were ultimately nominated by their respective parties.[8] During his campaign, he walked 240 miles across South Carolina as part of a publicity stunt to raise awareness for his candidacy.[9] Rex commented on Skewes' walk that it was "a testament to the fact that the American Party has an ability to attract a different type of person to run for public office".[10] According to Skewes' campaign website, he advocated eliminating Super PACs, abolishing the United States Electoral College, supporting family planning education to "reduce unplanned pregnancies", and instituting "a national drug registry to reduce abuse of prescription drugs".[11] Skewes told the Greenville News that he would consider his candidacy a success if he placed third in the presidential vote in South Carolina.[12] Skewes ultimately placed eighth out of eight candidates, receiving 3,221 votes, or about 0.2-percent of the total ballots cast in South Carolina.[13] Personal life[edit] Skewes is married; his wife, Teresa, is an employee of Clemson University.[4] References[edit] ^ "Peter Skewes". clemson.edu. Clemson University. Retrieved 3 August 2016. ^ "PETER SKEWES". americanpartysc.com. American Party of South Carolina. Retrieved 3 August 2016. ^ a b "Association Notes" (PDF). Poultry Science. Retrieved 4 August 2016. ^ a b Jenkins, Travis (28 July 2016). "Skewes walks the walk". Chester News and Reporter. Retrieved 3 August 2016. ^ Lamagna, Maria (2 July 2016). "The short life of a chicken is about to improve — guess who's paying for it?". MarketWatch. Retrieved 3 August 2016. ^ Brutzman, Anna (7 May 2011). "Clemson officials: Lab animal investigations prompted change". Independent Mail. Retrieved 3 August 2016. ^ "American Party of SC nominates candidates for a handful of offices". WRHI. 15 May 2016. Retrieved 3 August 2016. ^ "Clemson professor walking 240 miles in campaign for president as American Party candidate". Greenville Online. USA Today. 18 July 2016. Retrieved 3 August 2016. ^ Barnett, Ron (20 July 2016). "Clemson professor walking 240 miles in campaign for president". Greenville News. Retrieved 3 August 2016. ^ "PHOTO: No "stop" in this presidential candidate, party says". Statehouse Report. Statehouse Report LLC. 29 July 2016. Retrieved 4 August 2016. ^ "Platform". peterforpresident.us. Peter Skewes for President. Retrieved 3 August 2016. ^ "Clemson professor walking 240 miles in campaign for president". Greenville News. The State. 20 July 2016. Retrieved 4 August 2016. ^ "Overall 2016 South Carolina Presidential Election Results". Politico. Retrieved 11 November 2016. v t e (2012 ←) 2016 United States presidential election (→ 2020) 2016 United States elections Fundraising Political positions Polls national demographically statewide pre 2016 Jan–Aug 2016 international Social media Timeline General election debates Newspaper endorsements primary Vote pairing Recounts Russian interference Faithless electors Republican Party Debates and forums Endorsements Primaries Results Convention Polls national statewide straw Candidates (VP) Nominee Donald Trump campaign endorsements primary positions protests Republican opposition VP nominee: Mike Pence Other candidates Jeb Bush campaign positions Ben Carson campaign Chris Christie campaign Ted Cruz campaign endorsements positions Mark Everson Jack Fellure Carly Fiorina campaign Jim Gilmore campaign Lindsey Graham campaign Mike Huckabee campaign positions Bobby Jindal campaign John Kasich campaign endorsements Josue Larose Dennis Michael Lynch Andy Martin Jimmy McMillan George Pataki campaign Rand Paul campaign positions Rick Perry campaign positions Marco Rubio campaign positions Rick Santorum campaign Scott Walker campaign Democratic Party Political positions Endorsements Debates and forums Primaries Results Superdelegates Convention Polls national statewide straw Candidates (VP) Nominee Hillary Clinton campaign endorsements political non-political positions Democratic opposition VP nominee: Tim Kaine Other candidates Jeff Boss Harry Braun Lincoln Chafee campaign Rocky De La Fuente campaign Paul T. Farrell Jr. Keith Judd Lawrence Lessig campaign Martin O'Malley campaign Bernie Sanders campaign endorsements positions Sam Sloan Michael Steinberg Vermin Supreme Jim Webb campaign Robby Wells Willie Wilson John Wolfe Jr. Libertarian Party Debates and forums Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Gary Johnson campaign endorsements positions VP nominee: Bill Weld Other candidates John McAfee Austin Petersen Darryl W. Perry Vermin Supreme Green Party Debates and forums Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Jill Stein campaign endorsements VP nominee: Ajamu Baraka Other candidates Darryl Cherney Sedinam Kinamo Christin Moyowasifza Curry Constitution Party Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Darrell Castle campaign VP nominee: Scott Bradley Other candidates Tom Hoefling Independent Better for America Evan McMullin campaign endorsements Mindy Finn Other third-party and independent candidates American Delta Party Rocky De La Fuente campaign VP nominee: Michael Steinberg American Party of South Carolina Peter Skewes American Solidarity Party Mike Maturen America's Party Wiley Drake James Hedges Tom Hoefling Nutrition Party Rod Silva Party for Socialism and Liberation Gloria La Riva VP nominee: Eugene Puryear* Peace and Freedom Party Gloria La Riva VP nominee: Dennis Banks Other candidates Monica Moorehead Jill Stein Prohibition Party James Hedges Reform Party Rocky De La Fuente campaign VP nominee: Michael Steinberg Other candidates Darcy Richardson Socialist Action Jeff Mackler Socialist Equality Party Jerry White Socialist Party USA Mimi Soltysik campaign VP nominee: Angela Nicole Walker Socialist Workers Party Alyson Kennedy VP nominee: Osborne Hart United States Pacifist Party Bradford Lyttle Workers World Party Monica Moorehead Independent candidates Laurence Kotlikoff * : These candidates are constitutionally ineligible to serve as President or Vice President. Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Peter_Skewes&oldid=906494099" Categories: Living people Candidates in the 2016 United States presidential election 1957 births University of New Haven alumni University of Florida alumni Virginia Tech alumni People from Glastonbury, Connecticut Clemson University faculty Hidden categories: Articles with hCards Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 16 July 2019, at 06:33 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view