https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Socialist_Equality_Party_(United_States)
Socialist Equality Party (United States) - Wikipedia
Socialist Equality Party (United States) From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Socialist Equality Party Chair David North Joseph Kishore Founded September 1964; 55 years ago (September 1964) (as American Committee for the Fourth International) Headquarters PO Box 48377 Oak Park, MI 48237 Youth wing International Youth and Students for Social Equality Ideology Communism Revolutionary socialism Trotskyism Political position Far-left International affiliation International Committee of the Fourth International Colors Red Website socialequality.com Politics of United States Political parties Elections The Socialist Equality Party (SEP) is a Trotskyist political party in the United States, one of several Socialist Equality parties around the world affiliated with the International Committee of the Fourth International (ICFI). The ICFI publishes daily news articles, perspectives and commentaries on the World Socialist Web Site and maintains Mehring Books as publishing house. The SEP was formed in 1995 by the Workers League, the US supporters of the ICFI. The Workers League had been founded in 1966 by the American Committee for the Fourth International (ACFI), headed by Tim Wohlforth, which emerged out of a split with the Socialist Workers Party, in opposition to the latter's support for Castroism. According to the party's website, the SEP "seeks not to reform capitalism, but to create a socialist, democratic and egalitarian society through the establishment of a workers' government and the revolutionary transformation of the world economy. We seek to unify workers in the United States and internationally in the common struggle for socialism—that is, for equality and the rational and democratic utilization of the wealth of the planet." In 2008, the SEP held its official founding congress, where it adopted a statement of principles and official organizational history. It has participated in elections in the United States, including running Jerry White for President and Niles Niemuth for Vice President in 2016,[1] and Niemuth in Michigan's 12th congressional district in 2018.[2] Contents 1 History 1.1 Revolutionary Tendency 1.2 Reorganized Minority Tendency 1.3 Workers League 1.4 Socialist Equality Party 2 Ideology 2.1 The Obama administration 2.2 Workers' struggles and the trade unions 2.3 International revolution 2.4 Class unity 2.5 Democratic rights 2.6 Imperialism and war 3 Notable interventions 3.1 Massey coal mine explosion reports 3.2 Citizens Inquiry into the Dexter Avenue Fire 3.3 Committee Against Utility Shutoffs 3.4 Workers Inquiry Into the Bankruptcy of Detroit 4 Elections 5 Presidential tickets 6 References 7 External links History[edit] Revolutionary Tendency[edit] Main article: Revolutionary Tendency In the early 1960s, most American Trotskyists were organized in the Socialist Workers Party (SWP) as part of the International Committee of the Fourth International (ICFI). Tim Wohlforth was a youth leader in that party and was opposed to the course of the organization, which was heading toward reunification with the International Secretariat of the Fourth International (ISFI). With others, including James Robertson, he formed the Revolutionary Tendency (RT) within the SWP. It developed links with the Socialist Labour League in Britain, led by Gerry Healy. They saw the course of the SWP towards a regrouping with the ISFI, which had long been called Pabloite by members of the ICFI as breaking with basic Trotskyist principles. The party leadership at the same time blocked discussion over other issues, such as the SWP's support for Fidel Castro as an "unconscious" Trotskyist. The ICFI leadership, supported by the RT, argued that if a revolution can be carried out by an unconscious Trotskyist, there was no point of building the Fourth International as the conscious leadership of the working class. The ICFI traced the SWP's support for Cuba to their "regroupment" policy, in which according to the ICFI they attempted to gain the support of the middle class radical supporters of Cuba. The ICFI claimed this was done without a genuine discussion of the principles of the Fourth International. Reorganized Minority Tendency[edit] The two main leaders of the RT had different evaluations of the SWP. Robertson's position led the SWP to expel him and his supporters first, but he and his supporters did not join the ICFI. Robertson's group went on to form the Spartacist League. The remainder of the tendency, now led by Wohlforth alone, renamed their group the Reorganized Minority Tendency. Wohlforth and a small handful of his supporters were themselves expelled early in September 1964, proclaiming themselves the American Committee for the Fourth International (ACFI) and launching the biweekly Bulletin of International Socialism.[3] They maintained connections with Gerry Healy and the rest of the ICFI, which they considered the legitimate Trotskyist movement, becoming that group's American section. Wohlforth and his co-thinkers claimed the split was due to their insistence on a discussion of the decision by the Sri Lankan Lanka Sama Samaja Party to participate in the national government. They characterized this decision as "opportunism" that originated in the "centrist" position of the LSSP during the split between the ISFI and ICFI of 1953. Workers League[edit] The ACFI grew throughout the 1960s along with most leftist groupings. The ACFI was renamed the Workers League (WL) in 1966 and developed into a nationwide organization with hundreds of members. Its youth work, which led to the development of the Young Socialists, was particularly successful in this period. In 1985, the ICFI split over policies advanced by the Workers Revolutionary Party in Britain. The policies they disagreed with included supporting national bourgeois regimes, including those of Saddam Hussein and Muammar Gadhafi; and supporting Gordon McLennan, General Secretary of the Communist Party of Great Britain.[citation needed] Many of Healy's former supporters saw these moves as a repetition of the mistakes of Pabloism. The Workers League engaged in a long-term campaign against the rival Socialist Workers Party (SWP). In the 1970s, they issued a report titled "Security and the Fourth International" which alleged, amongst other things, that leading SWP member Joseph Hansen, who had been an assistant to Leon Trotsky during his Mexico City exile, was an accomplice in his assassination alleging that he and by implication the SWP were agents of the Soviet secret police (GPU). The WL also supported a lawsuit against the SWP by expelled member Alan Gelfand, who argued that he had been unconstitutionally deprived of his freedom of political expression by being expelled from the SWP by agents of the government. He attempted to force the government to reveal all its agents in the SWP and force the SWP to readmit him as a member. The lawsuit was dismissed in 1989, but not before confirming that former SWP leader Jim Cannon's secretary, Sylvia Callen (referred to by then-SWP national secretary Jack Barnes as his "hero"), had been a GPU agent. The WL and its successor organization, the Socialist Equality Party, also countered the SWP's campaign in defense of Mark Curtis with its own campaign alleging that the SWP member was guilty of the sexual assault charge for which he was imprisoned.[4][5] Socialist Equality Party[edit] Previous Socialist Equality Party logo In 1995, the various parties affiliated with the ICFI renamed themselves the Socialist Equality Party. The ICFI launched the World Socialist Web Site in 1998.[6] The party is also associated with the publishing house Mehring Books, formerly known as Labor Publications.[7] In 2006, the Socialist Equality Party relaunched its student movement (the Students for Social Equality) as the International Students for Social Equality, which was renamed the International Youth and Students for Social Equality (IYSSE) in 2012.[8] Ideology[edit] The Socialist Equality Party is a political party of and for the working class. The SEP seeks not to reform capitalism, but to create a socialist, democratic and egalitarian society through the establishment of a workers' government and the revolutionary transformation of world economy. We seek to unify workers in the United States and internationally in the common struggle for socialism—that is, for equality and the rational and democratic utilization of the wealth of the planet. — Socialist Equality Party The Obama administration[edit] The Socialist Equality Party claims that the majority of left-wing opponents of the Bush administration have "lined up behind the Obama Administration", despite the fact that the Obama administration's policies are in many respects similar to those of the Bush administration.[9] The Socialist Equality Party seeks to create a mass movement in opposition to the Obama administration on the basis of a socialist program. Workers' struggles and the trade unions[edit] Although some members[10] of the Socialist Equality Party are union members and the party is committed to working within those organizations,[11] it does not seek to facilitate any sort of social change through the trade unions, which they characterize as having interests antithetical to the workers they represent. The party calls for a break with the American union bureaucracies and the formation of "workplace committees" that will carry on economic struggles.[12] International revolution[edit] The Socialist Equality Party believes the revolution against capitalism is international in scope.[13] Therefore, the strategy of the party flows from a consideration of the international conditions of the working class. Class unity[edit] The Socialist Equality Party fights for the unity of the working class and opposes "identity politics". According to the party, the "shift from class to identity has been at the expense of an understanding of the real causes, rooted in the capitalist system, of the hardships that confront all working people. At its worst, it has promoted a competition among different "identities" for access to educational institutions, jobs and other "opportunities" which, in a socialist society, would be freely available to all people without such demeaning, dehumanizing and arbitrary distinctions".[14] The party opposes all forms of discrimination on any grounds and asserts that only a politically unified working class, composed of all races, religions and sexual orientations, can bring forth a free society.[15] Democratic rights[edit] The Socialist Equality Party believes democracy is a fundamental characteristic of the struggle for socialism and the party states: "Political equality is impossible without economic equality. Like the struggle against war, the fight to defend and expand democratic rights requires the independent political mobilization of the working class, on the basis of a socialist program, to conquer state power".[15] Further, "it would favor the abolition of existing institutions that either curtail democratic processes or serve as centers of conspiracy against the people (such as the imperial Presidency, standing army, and national-security apparatus). These and other necessary changes of a profoundly democratic character, to be determined by the masses themselves, are possible only in the context of the mass mobilization of the working class, imbued with socialist consciousness".[14] Imperialism and war[edit] The Socialist Equality Party asserts that capitalism leads inevitably to war as imperialist states seek geo-political dominance, spheres of influence, markets, control of vital resources and access to cheap labor.[15] Therefore, the party encourages and supports the widest mass protests against American militarism and its plans for war. The War on Terror is viewed as an assertion of imperial aggression on behalf of corporate interests and the party calls for an end to the conflicts in the Middle East.[15] Notable interventions[edit] Massey coal mine explosion reports[edit] The Socialist Equality Party sent World Socialist Web Site reporters to West Virginia after the Massey Upper Big Branch Mine disaster, which occurred on April 5, 2010. According to one of the reports, Massey workers claimed that the company had refused to allow them time off so that they could attend the funerals of their co-workers.[16] The World Socialist Web Site claimed that the article containing these interviews was "widely circulated and reposted or linked on the Internet".[17] Citizens Inquiry into the Dexter Avenue Fire[edit] In March 2010, the Socialist Equality Party initiated the Citizens Inquiry into the Dexter Avenue Fire in order to expose the life-threatening dangers caused by utility shutoffs after Sylvia Young, a single mother living on Dexter Avenue in Detroit, lost three of her children in a February fire several hours after DTE shut off her power and gas.[18] The committee held a press conference on March 11,[19] a hearing on March 20[20] and Fox 2 News did a television report.[21] The inquiry conducted interviews with Young's sister and attendees of the hearing.[22][23] The inquiry concluded with a report-back meeting on April 13, at which it announced its findings.[24] The inquiry concluded that (1) "There is a direct and clearly established link between utility shutoffs and house fires"; (2) "The claim that there are resources widely available to help people pay their utility bills is untrue" and "the programs that exist are inadequate and designed to benefit DTE"; (3) "DTE's policies are determined not by community need, but by corporate and shareholder interests"; (4) "The city and state governments work on behalf of DTE and other corporations. Government officials have longstanding political and business ties to DTE"; (5) "Extreme poverty and mass unemployment are decisive factors in deadly house fires"; (6) "Sylvia Young, the mother of the three children killed in the Bangor Street fire, has been wrongly victimized"; and (7) "DTE Energy, its executives and regulating agencies bear primary responsibility for the deaths of Marvin Allen, Tyrone Allen, Lynn Greer, and the three Young children". The Citizens Inquiry also made a number of recommendations for solving the problems that it had uncovered.[25] Committee Against Utility Shutoffs[edit] In May 2010, workers and young people established the Committee Against Utility Shutoffs (CAUS) in response to the deadly house fires in Detroit, Michigan that were "the result of the shutoff of gas and electrical service by the local utility monopoly, DTE Energy".[26] Workers Inquiry Into the Bankruptcy of Detroit[edit] On October 4, 2013, the Socialist Equality Party organized a popular demonstration in Detroit to oppose the sale of artwork at the Detroit Institute of Arts and the dismantling of Detroit pensions.[27] Both the sale and threats to pensions are associated with the Detroit bankruptcy. Hundreds of people attended the protest[28] and attended the discussion panel afterwards. Members of the Defend the DIA campaign suggested an independent inquiry into the finances of the bankruptcy. The Workers Inquiry findings were published at a full day forum at Wayne State University on February 15, 2014. The findings of the inquiry were separated into five sections: The Social and Historical Context of the Detroit Bankruptcy, The Political Conspiracy Behind the Bankruptcy of Detroit: Anatomy of a Crime, Art and the Working Class, The Detroit Bankruptcy: A Travesty of Democracy and The Rape of Detroit: Deindustrialization, Financialization and Parasitism.[29] Elections[edit] The Socialist Equality Party has also run candidates in several recent elections. Year Office State/City Candidate Votes % Misc. 2003 Governor California John Burton 6,748 0.1% Urged for a "No" vote on the recall[30] 2006 Senate New York Bill Van Auken 6,004 0.1% [31] 2006 House Michigan Jerome White 1,862 0.8% 12th district, Detroit [32] 2006 State Senate Illinois Joe Parnarauskis 1,894 3.4% 52nd district, Champaign–Urbana[33] 2006 State Senate Maine Eric DesMarais 296 2.3% 32nd district, Bangor[33] 2009 Mayor Detroit D'Artagnan Collier 1,265 1.4% 2010 State House Michigan D'Artagnan Collier 138 0.7% 9th district, Detroit 2013 Mayor Detroit D'Artagnan Collier 91 0.1% [34] 2016 State House West Virginia Naomi Spencer 921 2.3% 16th district, Huntington 2018 House California Kevin Mitchell 1,473 1.9% 51st district, Imperial and San Diego counties, top two primary [35] 2018 Senate California David Moore 24,601 0.4% Top two primary [36] 2018 House Michigan Niles Niemuth 2,200 0.8% 12th district, Detroit and Ann Arbor[37] Presidential tickets[edit] Election Presidential nominee Vice presidential nominee Votes Party name 1984 Edward Winn Helen Halyard 10,798 Workers League 1988 18,693 1992 Helen Halyard Fred Mazelis 3,050 1996 Jerome White 2,438 2000 2004 Bill Van Auken Jim Lawrence 1,857 Socialist Equality Party 2008 Jerome White Bill Van Auken 18 (write-in) 2012 Phyllis Scherrer 1,279 2016 Niles Niemuth 382 2020 Joseph Kishore Norissa Santa Cruz tba References[edit] ^ "Socialist Equality Party 2016". ^ "Niles Niemuth for Congress 2018". ^ Tim Wohlforth, The Prophet's Children: Travels on the American Left. Atlantic Highlands, NJ: Humanities Press, 1994; pp. 123-124. ^ "Socialist Equality Party raises its U.S. profile". Archived from the original on 30 July 2004. ^ "M-I: Denounce SEP gangsterism!". ^ "World Socialist Web Site". Archived from the original on 12 December 1998. ^ "About Mehring Books,", October 2016. ^ "Resolutions of the SEP Congress: Build the International Youth and Students for Social Equality". ^ Wachtler, Mark. "Socialists say Obama imprisoning Political Opposition". Opposition News. ^ "D'Artagnan Collier Speaks to rally of City workers". ^ "Strategy and tactics, Marxism vs. opportunism". ^ "Orthodox Trotskyism on the "Pseudo-Left" and Jeremy Corbyn". Tendance Coatesy. ^ "The World Tasks of the Socialist Equality Party". ^ a b Richards, M. "Understanding the US Socialist Equality Party". The Smirking Chimp. ^ a b c d "Socialist Equality Party Statement of Principles". ^ "Families begin to bury 29 killed in West Virginia explosion". ^ "WSWS verifies Massey's threat to fire miners who took off work to attend funerals". ^ "The Citizens Inquiry into the Dexter Avenue Fire". ^ "Dexter Avenue Fire Inquiry to hold press conference Thursday in Detroit". ^ "Citizens Inquiry into the Dexter Avenue Fire holds first hearing". ^ "Group Trying to Change Utility Shut-off Policies". ^ "Dexter Avenue Fire Inquiry: Sister of victims speaks on utility shutoffs". ^ "The Dexter Avenue Fire Inquiry - Post-hearing Interviews". ^ "Dexter Avenue inquiry announces findings". ^ "DTE, Worthy launch legal vendetta against "energy thieves"". Voice of Detroit. ^ "Committee Against Utility Shutoffs". ^ "Obama backs Detroit bankruptcy". Legal Monitor Worldwide. 15 October 2013. ^ "Hundreds of protesters gather at DIA in effort to defend art collection". WXYZ Detroit. ^ The Truth Behind the Bankruptcy of Detroit. Mehring Books. ISBN 1893638448. ^ "John Christopher Burton Candidate Statement". ^ "Socialist Equality candidate:"Society can't afford the rich"" (Flash video). ^ "Socialist Equality Party announces candidates in New York, Michigan and California". ^ a b "Socialist Equality Party to contest state elections in Illinois, Maine, Oregon and Washington". ^ Collier, D'Artagnan. "Support D'Artagnan Collier for Detroit Mayor". World Socialist Web Site. Retrieved 22 May 2013. ^ "Election Result Data". Retrieved 2018-07-23. ^ "2018 California Primary Election Results". Election Results. Retrieved 2018-07-03. ^ "Michigan's 12th Congressional District election, 2018 - Ballotpedia". Ballotpedia. Retrieved 2018-10-25. External links[edit] Socialist Equality Party. World Socialist Web Site. The Bulletin. Marxists Internet Archive. World Socialist Website. "The Workers League and the founding of the Socialist Equality Party". Archived from the original on 15 August 2000. v t e The Socialist Equality Parties World Socialist Web Site Australia Britain Germany Sri Lanka United States Canada France Youth Organisation International Youth and Students for Social Equality v t e Current communist parties in the United States Marxist-Leninist American Party of Labor Communist Party USA Communist Party USA (Provisional) Freedom Road Socialist Organization New Afrikan Black Panther Party Party for Socialism and Liberation Progressive Labor Party Revolutionary Communist Party, USA U.S. Marxist–Leninist Organization Trotskyist Freedom Socialist Party Socialist Action Socialist Alternative Socialist Equality Party Solidarity Other All-African People's Revolutionary Party Liberation Road Socialist Workers Party Workers World Party Communism portal List of communist parties v t e National political parties in the United States List of political parties in the United States Major parties Democratic Republican Third parties Larger 1 Constitution Green Libertarian Smaller 2 American (1969) American Freedom American Solidarity Citizens Communist Freedom Socialist Humane Justice Legal Marijuana Now Marijuana Pirate Prohibition Reform Socialism and Liberation Socialist (1973) Socialist Action Socialist Alternative Socialist Equality Socialist Workers Working Families Workers World Defunct parties Major parties Democratic-Republican Federalist National Republican Whig Third parties American (Know Nothing) American (1924) American Nazi American Vegetarian Americans Elect Anti-Masonic Black Panther Boston Tea Citizens Communist Workers' Constitution (1952) Constitutional Union Democratic-Republican (1844) Farmer–Labor Free Soil Modern Whig Gold Democrats Greenback Independence (1906) Independence (2007) Labor (1919) Labor (1996) Liberal Republican Liberty (1840) National Renaissance National Socialist National States' Rights National Union (1864) Natural Law New Alliance New Union Nullifier Opposition Populist (People's) Personal Choice Populist Progressive (1912) Progressive (1924) Progressive (1948) Radical Democracy Raza Unida Readjuster Red Guard Silver Silver Republican Social Democratic Socialist (1901) Socialist Labor States Rights (Dixiecrat) Traditionalist Worker Unconditional Union Union (1936) Unionist (1850s/60s) U.S. Labor White Patriot Workers Youth International 1 Recognized as a major national party by the FEC 2 Not recognized as a major national party by the FEC State and local political parties (without national body) Presidential nominating conventions Politics of the United States Politics portal Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Socialist_Equality_Party_(United_States)&oldid=945133286" Categories: 1966 establishments in the United States Far-left politics in the United States International Committee of the Fourth International Non-interventionist parties Political parties established in 1966 Trotskyist parties in the United States Socialist parties in the United States Hidden categories: All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from June 2007 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Deutsch Français 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 12 March 2020, at 00:51 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view