https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bloomberg_Television
Bloomberg Television - Wikipedia
Bloomberg Television From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Financial and business cable news channel Bloomberg Television Launched 1 January 1994; 26 years ago (1994-01-01) Owned by Bloomberg L.P. Picture format US and Canada 1080i (downscaled to letterboxed 480i for the SDTV feed) International feeds 1080i HDTV (downscaled to 16:9 480i/576i for the SDTV feeds) Slogan International Exchange Business Finance Money This Is Bloomberg Country United States Language English Broadcast area Various Headquarters Bloomberg Tower, 731 Lexington Avenue, Manhattan, New York City Bloomberg London Hong Kong[1] Formerly called Bloomberg Information TV (1994–1998) Sister channel(s) See Channels Website www.bloomberg.com/live Availability Satellite DirecTV (U.S.) Channel 353 (HD/SD) Foxtel (Australia) Channel 650 Dish TV (India) Channel 74 Reliance Digital TV (India) Channel 121 Astro (Malaysia) Channel 515 Airtel Digital TV (India) Channel 17 Freesat (UK) Channel 208 Sky (UK & Ireland) Channel 502 (HD) Sky Italia (Italy) Channel 504 TrueVisions (Thailand) Channel 783 SKY México Channel 630 OSN (Middle East & North Africa) Channel 415 DStv (Southern Africa) Channel 411 Yes (Israel) Channel 106 Skynindo (Indonesia) Channel 20 (HD 800/77/99) Channel 2 (C01/C02) MNC Vision (Indonesia) Channel 338 DishHD (Taiwan) Channel 6520 Cignal (Philippines) Channel 133 (SD) Dialog TV (Sri Lanka) Channel 40 beIN (Middle East & North Africa) Channel 148 SKYNET (Myanmar) Channel 7 (Myanmar) Channel 77 (Asia Pacific) CANAL+ (Myanmar) Channel 181 (Asia Pacific) Cable Sun Direct (India) Channel 650 Optus TV (Australia) Channel 650 Virgin Media (UK) Channel 609 (HD) Virgin Media Ireland Channel 240 UPC Romania Channel 425 (digital with DVR) TV di FASTWEB (Italy) Channel 504 Naxoo (Switzerland) Channel 70 (French), Channel 64 (English) Cablecom (Switzerland) Channel 153 (digital CH-D) TelstraClear InHomeTV (New Zealand) Channel 96 VTR Globalcom (Chile) Channel 370 First Media (Indonesia) Channel 231 SkyCable (Philippines) Channel 30 (Digital) Destiny Cable (Philippines) Channel 30 (Digital) Cablelink (Philippines) Channel 22 Cable TV Hong Kong (Hong Kong) Channel 128 (HD) Channel 155 (SD) Macau Cable TV (Macau) Channel 812 UPC (Poland) Channel 346 Vodafone TV (Spain) Channel 205 WightFibre (UK) Channel 34 Toya (Poland) Channel 809 IPTV Indihome (Indonesia) Channel 802 Singtel TV (Singapore) Channel 171 (HD) StarHub TV (Singapore) Channel 708 (HD) TV di FASTWEB (Italy) Channel 504 Infostrada TV (Italy) Channel 504 Chinese Telecom (Taiwan) Channel 152 Optik TV (Canada) Channel 102 AT&T U-verse (US) Channel 222 (SD) Channel 1222 (HD) CHT MOD (Taiwan) Channel 552 Google Fiber (US) Channel 123 (Channel only available in select areas) Fetch TV (Australia) Channel 182 now TV (Hong Kong) Channel 321 VEMOX (US) (HD) Peo TV (Sri Lanka) Channel 160 eir Vision (Ireland) Channel 502 Streaming media TVPlayer Watch live (UK only) Sling TV Internet Protocol television This article is part of a series about Michael Bloomberg Political positions Electoral history Bloomberg L.P. Terminal News Television Radio Businessweek Markets Mayor of New York City Mayoralty Elections 2001 2005 2009 2020 presidential campaign Primaries Endorsements Bloomberg Philanthropies Beyond Coal Everytown for Gun Safety Draft Bloomberg movement Portable Bloomberg: The Wit and Wisdom of Michael Bloomberg v t e Bloomberg Television (on-air as Bloomberg) is an American-based pay television network centred towards business and capital market programming, owned by Bloomberg L.P.[2] It is distributed globally, reaching over 310 million[3][4] homes worldwide. It is headquartered in New York City, with European headquarters in London and Asian headquarters in Hong Kong. Contents 1 Channels 1.1 Current channels 1.2 Former channels 2 United States service 2.1 History 3 International channels 4 Programs 4.1 Asia based program 4.2 Middle East based 4.3 Bloomberg Europe 4.4 New York production 5 Controversy 6 Datascreen and news ticker 7 Other platforms 8 See also 9 References 10 External links 10.1 Other media Channels[edit] Most of the channels listed are not directly operated by Bloomberg, but are operated by local companies who franchise the Bloomberg brand and may take some of its English-language programming. Current channels[edit] Bloomberg Television (from United States) Bloomberg El Financiero (from Mexico in Spanish and English) Bloomberg TV Malaysia (from Malaysia) Bloomberg TV Asia Pacific (from Hong Kong) Bloomberg TV EMEA (from London) Bloomberg HT (from Istanbul in Turkish) Bloomberg TV Mongolia (from Ulaanbaatar in Mongolian) Bloomberg TV South Asia (from Mumbai) Bloomberg TV Australia (launched June 2012)[5] Bloomberg TV Bulgaria Bloomberg TV Brasil (from São Paulo) BNN Bloomberg Former channels[edit] Bloomberg Brazil (from São Paulo in Portuguese) Bloomberg TV Indonesia[6] Bloomberg TV Canada Bloomberg TV India Bloomberg Germany (in German) Bloomberg TV France (in French) Bloomberg Italy (in Italian) Bloomberg TV Philippines Bloomberg Japan (in Japanese) Bloomberg Spain (in Spanish) Bloomberg TV Africa (launched October 2013,[7] closed in April 2015) United States service[edit] Bloomberg's U.S. broadcasts are headed by Justin Smith, the CEO of Bloomberg Media Group. Smith replaced Andy Lack,[8] who eventually returned to NBC News. The network also provided funding and studio facilities for the nightly PBS/WNET program Charlie Rose. History[edit] Bloomberg Television first launched in the United States on January 1, 1994 under the name Bloomberg Information TV, before it was shortened to its current name in 1998. Shortly after Bloomberg's launch, the now-defunct American Independent Network carried a simulcast of the channel at various times each weekday from 1995 to 1997, which was picked up by some broadcast stations in early morning periods to provide a de facto morning business show. The network's morning pre-opening bell programming was also aired on the USA Network, simulcasted in a paid programming arrangement with the channel until 2004, when that network dropped the simulcast months before the NBC Universal merger was consummated, due to concerns that USA would then air the coverage of a competitor to future sister network CNBC. The simulcast then moved to E! (which became NBCUniversal-owned in January 2011 due to that company's purchase by Comcast), where it remained until the simulcast ended in January 2009, when the network had expanded its reach on digital cable systems enough to discontinue the simulcast. During its time on E!, the 5–8 a.m. block was the most watched period for the network, according to Nielsen Media Research. Bloomberg Television's U.S. network debuted a new graphics package in January 2009. This current scheme was first used on the network's now-defunct pre-market program, Starting Bell, before the new graphics expanded to all of the network's programs on February 17, 2009. Also on that date, Bloomberg U.S. revamped its weekday programming lineup (see "Programs on Bloomberg" below). In October 2009, Bloomberg Television debuted another new graphics package.[clarification needed] In 2011, Bloomberg Television announced a strategic relationship with Gas Station TV (GSTV) to deliver personal finance and business news to more than 27 million viewers each month at GSTV pumps. Bloomberg launched a high definition simulcast feed on May 9, 2011, with Time Warner Cable as the first provider to carry it.[9] In mid-April 2013, DIRECTV started carrying Bloomberg HD. As of July 2014, Bloomberg Television's standard-definition feed now shows a down-scaled version of its native HD feed, with the 16:9 letterbox picture on its 4:3 SD feed. International channels[edit] In February 2009, Bloomberg Television announced that it would cease operating some of the international variations of the channel, placing a greater focus on a more international Bloomberg channel.[10] On March 9, 2009, the localized channels available in Germany, France, Italy and Spain ceased operations. Today, throughout Europe, the original pan-European version of Bloomberg Europe (International) is available on cable and digital television providers. Since March 9, 2009, Bloomberg Television utilizes its existing international production teams in Hong Kong (Bloomberg Asia), Europe (Bloomberg Europe) and America (Bloomberg), adding a more global feel to the channel. Bloomberg International provides programming from Hong Kong in the early morning, produced by Bloomberg Asia (International), from London in the late morning, produced by Bloomberg Europe (International), and from its main headquarters in New York City in the afternoon. Each Bloomberg receives localized advertising and a relevant business news ticker on screen. Bloomberg Japan ceased broadcasting on April 30, 2009. The channel was then replaced by Bloomberg Asia (International).[11] Bloomberg Japan's Japanese language print newsroom and website continue to operate as normal. In June 2009, the Japanese service began running small on-air segments in cooperation with BS-Fuji Television. In October 2009, segments produced with the Tokyo Broadcasting System were added.[12] Bloomberg Brazil and Bloomberg Latin America were integrated into the global Bloomberg channel during 2009. Bloomberg is an associate member of the Caribbean Cable & Telecommunications Association[13] and the Caribbean Cable Cooperative.[14] In November 2011, Bloomberg announced the formation of "Bloomberg TV Mongolia" in partnership with Trade and Development Bank of Mongolia (TDB), the oldest and one of the largest commercial banks in Mongolia.[15] The channel offers a mix of locally produced, Mongolian language content as well as English language news from Bloomberg Television. In February 2015, Bloomberg partnered with Canadian media company Channel Zero to form Bloomberg TV Canada, which featured U.S. Bloomberg Television programming and Canadian-produced studio programs produced from Bloomberg's Brookfield Place studio and other Canadian bureaus. The channel replaced the U.S. service on Canadian television providers.[16][17] The channel shut down in October 2017, after which Bloomberg entered into a partnership with Bell Media's Business News Network (BNN), to co-brand the channel as BNN Bloomberg, and grant the company rights to distribute its television and radio content in Canada. The co-branded service will augment BNN's existing business day programming with additional Bloomberg programs to handle coverage of international markets, and access to its bureaus.[18][19][20] Programs[edit] Live weekday shows Weekday schedule begins Sunday 6pm (ET), 11pm (UK), Monday 12am (CET) and 6am (HK). Weekend schedule begins on Friday/Saturday at the same times. Asia based program[edit] US ET (Sun-Thu) UK HK Program Anchor 6p-7p 11p-12a 6a-7a Bloomberg Daybreak Australia Haidi Lun (Sydney), Shery Ahn (New York) and Sophie Kamaruddin (Hong Kong) 7p-9p 12a-2a 7a-9a Bloomberg Daybreak Asia Haidi Lun (Sydney), Shery Ahn (New York) and Sophie Kamaruddin (Hong Kong) 9p-10p 2a-3a 9a-10a Bloomberg Markets: China Open Tom Mackenzie (Beijing), Yvonne Man and David Ingles (Hong Kong) 10p-12a 3a-5a 10a-12p Bloomberg Markets David Ingles, Yvonne Man, Rishaad Salamat (Hong Kong) and Haslinda Amin (Singapore) Middle East based[edit] US ET UK HK Program Anchor Europe & Asia only 5a-6a 12p-1p Bloomberg Daybreak Middle East Yousef Gamal El-Din and Manus Cranny (Dubai), Tracy Alloway (Hong Kong) Bloomberg Europe[edit] US ET UK HK Program Anchor 1a-2:30a 6a-7:30a 1p-2:30p Bloomberg Daybreak Europe Nejra Cehic (London) and Manus Cranny (Dubai) 2:30a-4a 7:30a-9a 2:30p-4p Bloomberg Markets: European Open Anna Edwards (London) and Matt Miller (Berlin) 11a-12p 4p-5p 11p-12a Bloomberg Markets: European Close Vonnie Quinn (New York) and Guy Johnson (London) New York production[edit] US ET UK HK Program Anchor 4a-7a 9a-12p 4p-5p and 6-7p only in Asia Bloomberg Surveillance Tom Keene (New York) and Francine Lacqua (London) 7a-9a 12p-2p 7p-9p Bloomberg Daybreak Americas Alix Steel 9a-10a 2p-3p 9p-10p Bloomberg: The Open Jonathan Ferro 10a-11a 3p-4p 10p-11p Bloomberg Markets Vonnie Quinn (New York) and Guy Johnson (London) 12p-1p US/Asia only 12a-1a Balance of Power David Westin 1p-1.30p 6p-6.30p 1a-1.30a Bloomberg Markets (Mon/Tues) or Weekly Special Programming (Weds-Fri) Vonnie Quinn (Mon/Tues) or various (Weds-Fri) 1.30p-2p 6.30p-7p 1.30a-2a Bloomberg Markets Vonnie Quinn/Shery Ahn (New York) and Amanda Lang (Toronto, with BNN Bloomberg) 2p-4p 7p-9p 2a-4a Bloomberg Markets: The Close Scarlet Fu and Caroline Hyde 4p-5p 9p-10p 4a-5a What'd You Miss? Romaine Bostick, Caroline Hyde and Joe Weisenthal US ET UK HK Program Anchor 5p-6p 10p-11p 5a-6a Bloomberg Technology Emily Chang Weekly shows Best of Bloomberg Technology with Emily Chang Bloomberg Best Bloomberg Businessweek with Carol Massar and Jason Kelly Bloomberg Commodities Edge with Alix Steel Brilliant Ideas Good Fortunes Bloomberg Real Yield with Jonathan Ferro Bloomberg ETF IQ with Scarlet Fu Studio 1.0 with Emily Chang High Flyers with Haslinda Amin Best of Bloomberg Markets Middle East with Yousef Gamal El-Din or Tracy Alloway Leaders with Lacqua with Francine Lacqua Controversy[edit] Bloomberg Europe studio In the United Kingdom, Bloomberg Television was severely reprimanded for breach of Ofcom rules during the 2005 UK national (General) election. Bloomberg was found to have shown pro-Labour Party bias.[21] This occurred because of a breach of British law. In the run up to a general election, television channels must provide equal time to all major political parties. Bloomberg covered the release by the Labour Party of their so-called "Business Manifesto", but did not provide counterbalancing air time to the Conservatives or Liberal Democrats. Datascreen and news ticker[edit] Bloomberg was well known for using a datascreen format that occupied most of the television screen and the camera shots. Until 1998, Bloomberg did not have a moving ticker. Instead, it had boxes that were dedicated to world news, as well as weather conditions in selected cities, in addition to market data which was confined to the bottom of the screen. This changed gradually to focus more on business news. The data screen was reformatted several times to include a moving stock ticker and accommodate new graphics.[citation needed] The datascreen format was phased out in late 2007, where the programs were seen almost in full-screen with the ticker and headlines bar confined to the lower part of the screen. However, Bloomberg HD (available in the US only) features more data boxes on the right side of the screen compared to its SD counterpart. This effectively makes on-screen presentation on Bloomberg HD resemble the pre-2007 datascreen.[citation needed] On Monday September 22, 2014, Bloomberg Television dropped the long-standing live stock ticker as part of the new on screen information format. No reason for this was given.[citation needed] Other platforms[edit] The widespread growth of mobile devices and social media have influenced sites such as Bloomberg to expand its news platforms into other areas. Bloomberg Television offers some off-air news updates via social media including Facebook,[22] and Twitter.[23][24] Rebroadcasts of news and other special programs are additionally aired on the station's official YouTube channel "Bloomberg Television".[25] On mobile devices, Bloomberg Television released an app available for the iPad.[26] Apple TV. It is also available for free viewing on Pluto TV streaming service.[27] As of February 2019, the audio simulcast of Bloomberg TV is distributed on Entercom's Radio.com website and app.[28] See also[edit] Journalism portal New York City portal Television portal Bloomberg News WBBR References[edit] ^ "Bloomberg Television on DISH Network". DISH. Retrieved May 1, 2013. ^ Stelter, Brian (September 3, 2007). "Picking Up the Pace in Business TV". The New York Times. Retrieved May 1, 2013. ^ "Bloomberg L.P. | About – Company, Products & Services, Contacts". Bloomberg.com. Retrieved November 24, 2012. ^ "David Plouffe Joins Bloomberg TV". Bloomberg. April 25, 2013. Retrieved May 1, 2013. ^ "Media Research Asia.com – Bloomberg To Launch Australian Feed". 'Media Research Asia'. Archived from the original on July 23, 2012. Retrieved May 5, 2012. ^ "Bloomberg luncurkan siaran televisi berbahasa Indonesia". 'BBC Indonesia'. Retrieved December 14, 2012. ^ "Bloomberg TV Africa readies for launch". 'RapidTVNews'. Retrieved October 23, 2013. ^ Hume, Tim (June 16, 2011). "Andrew Morse named head of Bloomberg TV". TV Newser. Retrieved January 22, 2012. ^ "HD Launch on Time Warner Cable Puts Bloomberg Television in Focus | Cable Television News | Broadcast Syndication | Programming". Multichannel.com. May 9, 2011. Retrieved November 24, 2012. ^ Mark Sweney and Stephen Brook (February 4, 2009). "Bloomberg cuts back TV service as it axes 100 jobs | Media | guardian.co.uk". London: Guardian. Retrieved November 24, 2012. ^ "Bloomberg.co.jp". Archived from the original on January 4, 2007. ^ "ブルームバーグ・メディア | 金融メディア一覧". Bloomberg. Archived from the original on November 27, 2012. Retrieved November 24, 2012. ^ "Caribbean Cable and Telecommunications Association – - Associate Members". Cctanet.com. Retrieved November 24, 2012. ^ "Territory and Co-op Channels – Caribbean Cable Cooperative, Ltd". Cctvcoop.com. Archived from the original on August 16, 2011. Retrieved 2012-11-24. ^ "Bloomberg Announces Formation of Bloomberg TV Mongolia". Bloomberg. November 1, 2011. ^ "Bloomberg Television set to launch Canadian channel this spring". Financial Post. Retrieved February 26, 2015. ^ "Bloomberg to launch Canadian business TV channel". The Globe and Mail. Toronto. February 26, 2015. Retrieved February 26, 2015. ^ "BNN to become BNN Bloomberg in new deal between Bell Media and Bloomberg Media". Financial Post. January 8, 2018. Retrieved January 11, 2018. ^ "BNN to rebrand as 'BNN Bloomberg' through new Bell Media-Bloomberg Media partnership". BNN. January 8, 2018. Retrieved January 11, 2018. ^ "Bloomberg, Bell Media strike deal to rebrand BNN". The Globe and Mail. Retrieved January 19, 2018. ^ "Ofcom Content Sanctions Committee" (PDF). Ofcom.org. Archived from the original (PDF) on September 3, 2006. Retrieved November 24, 2012. ^ Bloomberg Television on Facebook ^ Bloomberg Television on Twitter ^ "Bloomberg's TicToc is starting to build a brand beyond Twitter". Digiday. September 24, 2018. Retrieved June 14, 2019. ^ Television Bloomberg Television's channel on YouTube ^ bloomberg-tv+ on the App Store ^ "Pluto TV". Pluto TV. Retrieved June 14, 2019. ^ Radio.com Adds CNN & Bloomberg Live Audio And Podcasts - Radio Insight (published February 7, 2019) External links[edit] Official website Other media[edit] Bloomberg radio(streaming) Bloomberg podcasts v t e Bloomberg L.P. Products Bloomberg Tradebook Bloomberg Terminal Bloomberg Industry Group (Bloomberg Government, Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Tax, Bloomberg Environment) Bloomberg New Energy Finance Bloomberg Innovation Index Bloomberg Aptitude Test Media Online Bloomberg News Bloomberg Politics Bloomberg Opinion Bloomberg Technology Bloomberg Pursuits Broadcast Bloomberg Television BNN Bloomberg Bloomberg Radio CFTE WBBR WNBP Publications Bloomberg Businessweek Bloomberg Markets People Michael Bloomberg Peter Grauer Thomas Secunda Daniel Doctoroff John Micklethwait Matthew Winkler Justin B. Smith Other Bloomberg v. Federal Reserve Bloomberg Beta Bloomberg Philanthropies Headquarters Links to related articles v t e Bloomberg L.P. Products Bloomberg Tradebook Bloomberg Terminal Bloomberg Industry Group (Bloomberg Government, Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Tax, Bloomberg Environment) Bloomberg New Energy Finance Bloomberg Innovation Index Bloomberg Aptitude Test Media Online Bloomberg News Bloomberg Politics Bloomberg Opinion Bloomberg Technology Bloomberg Pursuits Broadcast Bloomberg Television BNN Bloomberg Bloomberg Radio CFTE WBBR WNBP Publications Bloomberg Businessweek Bloomberg Markets People Michael Bloomberg Peter Grauer Thomas Secunda Daniel Doctoroff John Micklethwait Matthew Winkler Justin B. Smith Other Bloomberg v. Federal Reserve Bloomberg Beta Bloomberg Philanthropies Headquarters v t e Television news in the United States Broadcast divisions ABC News CBS News NBC News PBS NewsHour Noticias Telemundo Noticias Univision National networks Digital multicast Court TV CBN News Channel NewsNet Cable/satellite BBC World News Black News Channel CGTN America CNN HLN CNN International CNN en Español Fox News France 24 i24NEWS MSNBC Newsmax TV Newsy NHK One America News RT America Non-profits Free Speech TV Link TV Business channels Bloomberg TV Cheddar CNBC CNBC World Fox Business Specialty channels C-SPAN C-SPAN2 C-SPAN3 ESPNews Fusion TV Weather AccuWeather Network The Weather Channel Local Now Weatherscan WeatherNation TV OTT services National ABC News: Live CBSN CBS Sports HQ Cheddar Big News NBC News Now Specialty AJ+ Fox Nation Reuters TV Vice News Outsourcing AerisWeather News Hub Weather Services International WeatherVision Defunct ABC channels ABC News Now Satellite News Al Jazeera America All News Channel BlazeTV CNN channels CNNfn CNN Pipeline CNNSI Current TV FNN-SCORE Independent News Network The Local AccuWeather Channel News Central NBC channels America's Talking NBC Weather Plus Shift CBC Newsworld International The Weather Cast TouchVision UPI Newstime Univision Noticias v t e TX Network Hokkaidō, Tōhoku TVh Kantō, Chūbu, Kinki TX TVA TVO Chūgoku, Shikoku, Kyūshū TSC TVQ BS Digital BSJ ATX v t e Sirius XM Radio channels Entertainment Fox News Radio The Foxxhole Jeff & Larry's Comedy Roundup Just for Laughs Radio Laugh USA Martha Stewart Living Radio Raw Dog Comedy Sirius XM Stars Family and health Doctor Radio Kids Place Live Radio Classics Radio Disney News BBC World Service Bloomberg Radio CNBC CNN CNN en Español C-Span Radio Fox News Channel Fox News Talk HLN MSNBC NPR Now POTUS Politics PRX Sirius XM Patriot SiriusXM Progress Sirius XM Insight SiriusXM Urban View Religion FamilyNet Radio The Catholic Channel EWTN FamilyTalk Sports ESPN Radio ESPN Deportes Radio ESPNU Radio ESPN Xtra IndyCar Radio Mad Dog Sports Radio MLB Network Radio NBA Radio NASCAR Radio NFL Radio The Score XM Scoreboard Canadian Calendrier Sportif Canada 360 Canada Talks CBC Radio One Ici Radio-Canada Première Quoi de Neuf Radio Parallèle Other America's Talk ATN-Asian Radio Cosmo Radio Extreme Talk Howard 100 Howard 101 Korea Today Playboy Radio ReachMD Road Dog Trucking Sirius XM Indie Sirius XM Weather & Emergency Specials Faction Talk The Weather Network WRN Broadcast Premium channels Faction Talk OutQ Sirius XM NHL Network Radio Sirius XM PGA Tour Radio v t e Subscription television channels in Australia Fetch TV Foxtel Kayo Sports Optus Television TransACT Channels Entertainment & Drama A&E Arena BBC First BBC Living BBC UKTV Boxsets Comedy Central The Comedy Channel E! Fox One Fox Crime Fox Funny Fox8 Foxtel Arts Fox Classics Fox H!TS MTV Fox Showcase Spike Universal TV Lifestyle FashionTV Food Network HGTV Lifestyle Lifestyle Food Lifestyle Home TLC Travel Channel Religious Australian Christian Channel Daystar Hillsong Channel SonLife Home Shopping Expo Channel TVSN Movies Foxtel Movies Sport BeIN Sports Edge Sport ESPN ESPN2 Fox Cricket Fox Footy Fox League Fox Sports Fox Sports News Main Event Optus Sport Sky Racing News Al Jazeera English BBC World News Bloomberg Television Channel NewsAsia CGTN CNBC Australia CNN International Euronews France 24 Fox News Channel HLN NDTV 24x7 NHK World RT Sky News Sky News Extra Sky News UK Sky News Weather Channel TRT World Documentary Animal Planet BBC Knowledge Crime + Investigation Discovery Channel Discovery Science Discovery Turbo History Investigation Discovery Nat Geo Wild National Geographic Kids & Family BabyTV Boomerang Cartoon Network CBeebies Disney Channel Disney Junior Nick Jr. Nickelodeon ZooMoo Music CMC Max MTV Classic MTV Dance MTV Music Smooth Stingray CMusic [V] Specialty Al Jazeera ANT1 Pacific ART Aurora Community Channel eGG Network The Filipino Channel LDC Rai Italia Defunct Asia Business News BBC HD Binge Bio C7 Sport Channel [V] CNNfn Country Music Television Discovery HD World Discovery Home & Health Discovery Kids Disney XD Eurosport 1 Eurosport News Fox Footy Channel Fox Kids Fuel TV FX Horizon Learning Channel HOW TO Channel KidsCo Lifestyle You LocalVision MAD World Movie Network Channels MTV Hits MTV Live HD National Geographic Channel HD Nat Geo People Neighbourhood Cable Odyssey Channel Oh! SF Channel Showtime Movie Channels Sky News Business Channel Sky News Election Channel SoHo Speed Studio Style Network Syfy The Soundtrack Channel 13th Street TechTV TV1 TVH!TS TVN Turner Classic Movies UBI World TV Weatherzone Wine TV World Movies Yesshop Your Money v t e Television news in Australia Broadcast news divisions ABC News Seven News Nine News 10 News First SBS World News Regional broadcast news divisions Southern Cross News Tasmania Spencer Gulf and Broken Hill Other regions Prime7 News GWN7 News NBN News WIN News National cable/ satellite channels ABC News Al Jazeera English BBC World News CNN International CCTV News Fox News Channel Fox Sports News NHK World Russia Today Sky News Live Specialty channels Bloomberg TV CNBC Asia Sky News Extra Sky News Weather Channel Defunct Asia Business News CNNfn SBS World News Channel Sky News Business Channel Sky News Election Channel Weatherzone Your Money Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Bloomberg_Television&oldid=951326286" Categories: 1994 establishments in New York (state) 24-hour television news channels in the United States Bloomberg L.P. Business-related television channels Cable television in the United States English-language television stations in the United States Foreign television channels broadcasting in the United Kingdom Media companies based in New York City Television channels and stations established in 1994 Business mass media in the United States Hidden categories: ITunes app ID not in Wikidata Articles with short description Use mdy dates from September 2015 Wikipedia articles needing clarification from September 2011 All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from June 2019 Official website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Azərbaycanca Беларуская (тарашкевіца)‎ Deutsch Español فارسی Français Bahasa Indonesia Italiano Lietuvių Bahasa Melayu Монгол 日本語 Norsk bokmål Português Русский Svenska ไทย Türkçe Українська Tiếng Việt 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 16 April 2020, at 16:42 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view