https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mainstream_media
Mainstream media - Wikipedia
Mainstream media From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Mainstream media is a term and abbreviation used to refer collectively to the various large mass news media that influence many people, and both reflect and shape prevailing currents of thought.[1] The term is used to contrast with alternative media which may contain content with more dissenting thought at variance with the prevailing views of mainstream sources. The term is often used for large news conglomerates, including newspapers and broadcast media, that underwent successive mergers in many countries. The concentration of media ownership has raised concerns of a homogenization of viewpoints presented to news consumers. Consequently, the term mainstream media has been widely used in conversation and the blogosphere, sometimes in oppositional, pejorative or dismissive senses, in discussion of the mass media and media bias. Contents 1 Alternative terms 2 United States 2.1 Recent media mergers in the United States 2.2 The "Big five" 2.3 American public distrust in the media 3 United Kingdom 4 See also 5 Notes Alternative terms[edit] The advent of the internet allowed the expression of a more diverse or alternative viewpoint which may contrast to mainstream media, to the point where the term mainstream media is seen in pejorative terms.[2] Lamestream media is a common pejorative alternative. Sarah Palin referred to "lamestream media," notably around 2009 during her participation in the Tea Party Express, in the context of what she perceived as media misrepresentation of the Tea Party movement.[3][4][5] United States[edit] Main article: Media cross-ownership in the United States In the United States, movie production is known to have been dominated by major studios since the early 20th century; before that, there was a period in which Edison's Trust monopolized the industry.[citation needed] In the early twenty-first century the music and television industries was subject to media consolidation, with Sony Music Entertainment's parent company merging their music division with Bertelsmann AG's BMG to form Sony BMG, and Tribune's The WB and CBS Corp.'s UPN merging to form The CW. In the case of Sony BMG there existed a "Big Five", later "Big Four", of major record companies, while The CW's creation was an attempt to consolidate ratings and stand up to the "Big Four" of American network (terrestrial) television (although the CW was actually partially owned by one of the Big Four in CBS). In television, the vast majority of broadcast and basic cable networks, over a hundred in all, are controlled by eight corporations: News Corporation (the Fox family of channels), The Walt Disney Company (which includes the ABC, ESPN and Disney brands), National Amusements (which includes CBS Corporation and Viacom), Comcast (which includes the NBC brands), Time Warner, Discovery Communications, E. W. Scripps Company, Cablevision, or some combination thereof.[6] There may also be some large-scale owners in an industry that are not the causes of monopoly or oligopoly. Clear Channel Communications, especially since the Telecommunications Act of 1996, acquired many radio stations across the United States, and came to own more than 1,200 stations. However, the radio broadcasting industry in the United States and elsewhere can be regarded as oligopolistic regardless of the existence of such a player. Because radio stations are local in reach, each licensed a specific part of spectrum by the FCC in a specific local area, any local market is served by a limited number of stations. In most countries, this system of licensing makes many markets local oligopolies. The similar market structure exists for television broadcasting, cable systems and newspaper industries, all of which are characterized by the existence of large-scale owners. Concentration of ownership is often found in these industries.[citation needed] In the United States, data on ownership and market share of media companies is not held in the public domain.[citation needed] Recent media mergers in the United States[edit] Over time the rate of media mergers has increased, while the number of media outlets has also increased. This has resulted in a higher concentration of ownership, with fewer companies owning more media outlets.[7] 50 different companies used to own 90% of the media in America in the 1980s.[8]Now only five media conglomerates own that 90% of media.[9]The kind of media includes books, radio, movies, newspapers and magazines.[10]Due to the 90% of media ownership, these five conglomerates have the power to control the information that goes out to the general public.[11] The "Big five"[edit] The Big five[12] Media Outlets 2018 Revenues Comcast NBCUniversal (a joint venture with General Electric from 2011 to 2013): NBC and Telemundo, Universal Pictures, Focus Features, 26 television stations in the United States and cable networks USA Network, Bravo, CNBC, The Weather Channel, MSNBC, Syfy, NBCSN, Golf Channel, E!, Chiller, Olympic Channel, and the NBC Sports Regional Networks. Comcast also owns the Philadelphia Flyers through a separate subsidiary. $94.5 billion [13] The Walt Disney Company Holdings include: ABC Television Network, cable networks ESPN, Disney Channel, A&E and Lifetime, approximately 30 radio stations, music, video game, and book publishing companies, production companies Touchstone, Marvel Entertainment, Lucasfilm, Walt Disney Pictures, Pixar Animation Studios, the cellular service Disney Mobile, Disney Consumer Products and Interactive Media, and theme parks in several countries. Also has a longstanding partnership with Hearst Corporation, which owns additional TV stations, newspapers, magazines, and stakes in several Disney television ventures. $59.4 billion [14] News Corporation* Holdings include: the Fox Broadcasting Company; cable networks Fox News Channel, Fox Business Network, Fox Sports 1, Fox Sports 2, National Geographic, Nat Geo Wild, FX, FXX, FX Movie Channel, and the regional Fox Sports Networks; print publications including the Wall Street Journal and the New York Post; the magazines Barron's and SmartMoney; book publisher HarperCollins; film production companies 20th Century Fox, Fox Searchlight Pictures and Blue Sky Studios. (*) As of July 2013, News Corporation was split into two separate companies, with publishing assets and Australian media assets going to News Corp, and broadcasting and media assets going to 21st Century Fox.[15] $39.4 billion ($9 billion News Corp [16] and $30.4 billion 21st Century Fox [17]) WarnerMedia (AT&T) Formerly the largest media conglomerate in the world, with holdings including: CNN, the CW (a joint venture with CBS), HBO, Cinemax, Cartoon Network/Adult Swim, HLN, NBA TV, TBS, TNT, truTV, Turner Classic Movies, Warner Bros. Pictures, Castle Rock, DC Comics, Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment, and New Line Cinema. $28.9 billion [18] ViacomCBS Holdings include: MTV, Nickelodeon/Nick at Nite, VH1, BET, Comedy Central, Paramount Pictures, and Paramount Home Entertainment. CBS Television Network and the CW (a joint venture with Time Warner), cable networks CBS Sports Network, Showtime, Pop; 30 television stations; CBS Radio, Inc., which has 130 stations; CBS Television Studios; book publisher Simon & Schuster. Unknown American public distrust in the media[edit] A 2019 Gallup poll found that Americans remain largely mistrustful of the mass media. Between 2017 and 2019, 41%-45%[19] of respondents have had "a great deal" or "fair amount" of trust in newspapers, television and radio to report the news "fully, accurately and fairly." Distrust had increased since the mid 2010s when Americans were already more negative about the media than they had been before 2004.[20] Throughout 2016, Google and Facebook had been targeted to disperse a substantial amount of fake news, with the aim, it was claimed, of confusing Americans about various topics. Following the victory of Donald Trump in the 2016 presidential election and during the campaign, Americans who supported Hillary Clinton were especially enraged about the noticeable amount of fake news about the election on the two websites. Facebook was targeted to some degree in order to sway the American people with a particular agenda during the electoral cycle, although the chief executive of Facebook, Mark Zuckerberg stated that "Facebook did not have a role in the recent presidential campaign".[21] United Kingdom[edit] In the UK, during 1922, after the closure of many radio stations, the British Broadcasting Company started its first daily radio transmission and started to grow an audience.[22] Later that year John Reith, a Scottish engineer, would be appointed the first General Manager for the BBC.[22] Later on January 1, 1927 the BBC was fully established by Royal Charter and renamed the British Broadcasting Corporation with Reith as the first Director-General.[22] During November of 1936 the BBC began to expand into television broadcasting and was the first broadcaster to start the trend of a regularly scheduled TV service. [23] Today the BBC is one of two chartered public broadcasting companies in the United Kingdom. The second is ITV, Independent Television, which was established in 1955 as the first public commercial television company after the Television act of 1954 in an effort to break up the monopoly the BBC had on television broadcasting, gaining fifteen regional broadcasting licenses in less than twenty years.[24] [25] Today the BBC and ITV are the two free to air digital services offered to everyone in the United Kingdom and each others biggest competitors. The BBC has nine national television channels, BBC three, the first channel to switch from television to online, an interactive channel, ten national and forty local radio stations, BBC Online, and BBC Worldwide.[26] ITV currently holds thirteen of the fifteen regional broadcasting licenses in the United Kingdom that carries their multiple channels including ITV, ITVhub, ITV2, ITVBe, ITV 3, ITV4, CITV, ITV Encore, Britbox, a video-on-demand service in collaboration with the BBC to bring British television content to the United States and Canada, and Cirkus, their own video-on-demand service. [27] See also[edit] Wikiquote has quotations related to: Mainstream media Agenda-setting theory Alternative media Big Three television networks Concentration of media ownership Corporate media Deregulation Fake news Freedom of speech Freedom of the press Lists of corporate assets Local News Service Mainstream Media bias Media conglomerate Media cross-ownership in the United States Media democracy Media imperialism Media manipulation Media proprietor Media transparency Monopolies of knowledge Network neutrality Old media Partido da Imprensa Golpista Politico-media complex Prometheus Radio Project Propaganda model State controlled media Telecommunications Act of 1996 Western media Notes[edit] ^ Chomsky, Noam, "What makes mainstream media mainstream", October 1997, Z Magazine, [1] ^ 2013, Olesya Tkacheva, Internet Freedom and Political Space, p. 35 ^ CBS News (cbsnews.com), "Sarah Palin: Obama's Policies Are 'Un-American'", April 14, 2010, [2] ^ Politico (politico.com), "Sarah Palin trashes 'lamestream media'", 11/18/09, [3] ^ Los Angeles Times, "'Tea party' protesters in Nevada target health law, Reid", March 28, 2010 ^ Steiner, Tobias. "Under the Macroscope: Convergence in the US Television Market between 2000 and 2014". academia.edu. Retrieved 4 Aug 2015. ^ Entertainment More: Infographic Media Corporation Mergers And Acquisitions These 6 Corporations Control 90% Of The Media In America - Business Insider, June 14 2012 ^ "6 Corporations Control 90% Of The Media In America". Morris Creative Group. 2012-06-15. Retrieved 2020-04-08. ^ "The Incredible Belief That Corporate Ownership Does Not Influence Media Content". Common Dreams. Retrieved 2020-04-08. ^ "How five American companies control what you think". RT International. Retrieved 2020-04-08. ^ Shafer, Jack (2004-08-04). "The media monotony". Slate Magazine. Retrieved 2020-04-08. ^ Ownership Chart: The Big Six. (2009) Free Press. Retrieved from http://www.freepress.net/ownership/chart/main Archived 2012-02-07 at the Wayback Machine ^ "Comcast 2018 Revenue". CMCSA.com. CMCSA.com. Retrieved 15 July 2019. ^ "Disney 2018 Revenue" (PDF). TheWaltDisneyCompany.com. TheWaltDisneyCompany.com. Retrieved 15 July 2019. ^ "News Corp officially splits in two". BBC News. Retrieved June 29, 2013. ^ "News Corp 2018 Revenue". NewsCorp.com. NewsCorp.com. Retrieved 15 July 2019. ^ "21st Century Fox 2018 Revenue". 21cf.com. 21cf.com. Retrieved 15 July 2019. ^ "WarnerMedia 2018 Revenue" (PDF). ATT.com. ATT.com. Retrieved 15 July 2019. ^ Inc, Gallup (2019-09-26). "Americans' Trust in Mass Media Edges Down to 41%". Gallup.com. Retrieved 2020-01-25. ^ "U.S. Distrust in Media Hits New High". Gallup. September 21, 2012. ^ Gomez, Al (November 22, 2016). "Moving Forward: Google and Facebook Against Fake News". Stratford University. ^ a b c "History of the BBC-1920s". BBC.com. Retrieved 18 November 2018. ^ "History of the BBC-1930s". BBC.com. Retrieved 18 November 2018. ^ "About ITV/History". Itvplc.com. Retrieved 19 November 2018. ^ "Television Act of 1954". The National Archives. Retrieved 19 November 2018. ^ "BBC at a glance". BBC.com. Retrieved 18 November 2018. ^ "About ITV/ What we do". itvplc.com. Retrieved 19 November 2018. v t e Media culture Media Mass media Mainstream media 24-hour news cycle Corporate media News broadcasting News media Ideology Mainstream Advanced capitalism American Dream Bipartisanship Consumerism Pensée unique Pop music Deception Forms Advertising Propaganda Fake news Public relations Spin Tabloid journalism Techniques Cult of personality Dumbing down Framing Media circus Media event Narcotizing dysfunction Recuperation Sensationalism Others Catch and kill Crowd manipulation Managing the news Media manipulation Philosophers Theodor W. Adorno Jean Baudrillard Edward Bernays Noam Chomsky Guy Debord Walter Lippmann Marshall McLuhan Jacques Rancière Counterculture Boycott Call-out culture Cancel culture Civil disobedience Culture jamming Demonstration Graffiti Occupation Political satire Protest Punk Strike action In academia Influence of mass media Media studies Semiotic democracy The Lonely Crowd Issues Anonymity Concentration of media ownership Freedom of speech Media bias Privacy Synonyms Advanced capitalism Culture industry Mass society Post-Fordism Society of the Spectacle Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mainstream_media&oldid=949724076" Categories: Concentration of media ownership News media Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from November 2016 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikiquote Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages العربية Español فارسی Français Bahasa Indonesia Bahasa Melayu Norsk bokmål Português Suomi Svenska Türkçe Українська Edit links This page was last edited on 8 April 2020, at 04:26 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view