https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Florida_Times-Union
The Florida Times-Union - Wikipedia
The Florida Times-Union From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Daily newspaper in Jacksonville, Florida The Florida Times-Union The 5 March 2007 front page of The Florida Times-Union Type Daily newspaper Format Broadsheet Owner(s) Gannett Founder(s) J.K. Stickney W.C. Morrill Charles H. Jones Editor Mary Kelli Palka Founded 1864 (as the Florida Union) Headquarters 1 Riverside Avenue Jacksonville, Florida 32202 US Circulation 45,000 Daily (2007) 70,000 Sunday (2007)[1] ISSN 0740-2325 Website jacksonville.com The Florida Times-Union is a major daily newspaper in Jacksonville, Florida, United States. Widely known as the oldest newspaper in the state, it began publication as the Florida Union in 1864. Its current incarnation started in 1883, when the Florida Union merged with another Jacksonville paper, the Florida Daily Times.[2] A Southeast Georgia edition, called The Georgia Times-Union, serves the Brunswick area. In 1983, Morris Communications of Augusta, Georgia, purchased Florida Publishing Company. The Times-Union became the largest newspaper of this chain, which owns a number of newspapers around the country. In 2018, its editor was Mary Kelli Palka, and the editorial page editor was Michael P. Clark. Contents 1 History 2 Ownership 3 See also 4 References 5 External links History[edit] In 1864, during the American Civil War, J. K. Stickney and W. C. Morrill published the first edition of the Florida Union. It was a Northern and Republican paper, at the time when Jacksonville was occupied by the Union Army. By 1867, Stickney sold the Florida Union to Edward M. Cheney, of Boston. Cheney tried to make the paper into a daily publication but lacked the needed money. The Union was sold to Walton, Fowle & Co. in 1873. Stockholder C. F. Mawbey assumed control and turned the Union into a daily publication. Cheney returned to the Union as an editor. In 1876, the Union was in decline and abandoned daily publication. Financially doomed, it was sold to H. B. McCallum, who then returned it to daily publication and converted it from an afternoon to a morning paper. Charles H. Jones wanted to buy the Union but was refused by McCallum. Annoyed, Jones started a rival paper, the Florida Daily Times, in November 1881. By 1883, the Daily Times was dominating the Union. McCallum became ill and finally decided to sell the paper to the Daily Times. The Union then combined with the Daily Times to form The Florida Times-Union, whose first edition was published on February 4, 1883.[3] On February 11, 2018, The Florida Times-Union printed its last papers in Jacksonville after 154 years. The Florida Times-Union newspapers are now printed at The Gainesville Sun and The Daytona Beach News-Journal, which are both owned by Gatehouse Media.[4] On April 1, 2019, The Florida Times-Union moved to the Wells Fargo building at 1 Independent Drive, Suite 200 in downtown Jacksonville.[5] The Florida Times-Union (far right) in the 1880s. The pressroom in 1911. The Florida Times Union employees using linotype machines in 1972. The offices of The Florida Times-Union from 1967 to 2019. Ownership[edit] For most of the 20th century, The Florida Times-Union was owned by the Florida Publishing Company, which was in turn jointly owned by the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad, the Florida East Coast Railway, and the Seaboard Air Line Railway, the three main railroads serving Jacksonville, having been acquired in equal shares by them or their corporate predecessors about 1896.[6] The Coast Line and the Seaboard merged in 1967 and were predecessors of CSX Transportation; the Florida East Coast has maintained its corporate identity into the 21st century. Both railroads have their headquarters in Jacksonville, the railroad hub of the state. In 1983 Morris Communications of Augusta, Georgia, acquired the Florida Publishing Company.[7] In October 2017 Gatehouse Media acquired the Times-Union from Morris Communications.[8] See also[edit] Florida portal Journalism portal Media in Jacksonville, Florida List of newspapers in Florida References[edit] ^ "2007 Top 100 Daily Newspapers in the U.S. by Circulation" (PDF). BurrellesLuce. March 31, 2007. Retrieved May 30, 2007. ^ "The Florida Times-Union". Morris Communications Company, LLC. Archived from the original on May 3, 2007. Retrieved March 5, 2007. ^ Foley, Bill. "History of the Florida Times-Union". Jacksonville.com. Retrieved April 11, 2015. ^ Benfield, David (February 11, 2018). "End of an era: Florida Times-Union prints its last paper in Jacksonville". WJXT. Retrieved February 12, 2018. ^ "Florida Times-Union moves to Wells Fargo building downtown". Jacksonville.com. Retrieved August 2, 2019. ^ United States Senate, Committee on Interstate Commerce (1942). Investigations of Railroads, Holding Companies, and Affiliated Companies, and Related Matters, Volume 16, Part 26: Seaboard Air Line Railway. Washington, D. C.: U. S. Government Printing Office. pp. 11785–11812. Retrieved March 17, 2020. ^ "Fact Sheet". morris.com. Retrieved April 11, 2015. ^ "Times-Union gets new ownership with closing of purchase by GateHouse Media". The Florida Times-Union. Retrieved January 1, 2018. External links[edit] Official website v t e Gannett People John Jeffry Louis III (chairman) National assets USA Today Golfweek MMAjunkie.com Reviewed USA Today Sports Weekly v t e Gannett regional daily newspapers in the United States Abilene Reporter-News The Advocate Akron Beacon Journal Alice Echo-News Journal The Alliance Review Amarillo Globe-News The American News Ames Tribune Anderson Independent-Mail Alamogordo Daily News The Ardmoreite Argus Leader The Arizona Republic Asbury Park Press Asheville Citizen-Times Ashland Times-Gazette Athens Banner-Herald The Augusta Chronicle Austin American-Statesman Battle Creek Enquirer The Barnstable Patriot Bartlesville Examiner-Enterprise Bastrop Daily Enterprise The Baxter Bulletin Beauregard Daily News The Beaver County Times Boone News-Republican Boonville Daily News Brownwood Bulletin Bucks County Courier Times The Bulletin Burlington County Times The Burlington Free Press Butler County Times-Gazette Cambridge Chronicle Cape Cod Times Carlsbad Current-Argus The Carmi Times Charlevoix Courier Cheboygan Daily Tribune Chillicothe Constitution-Tribune Chillicothe Gazette The Cincinnati Enquirer The Clarion-Ledger The Columbus Dispatch Commercial Appeal Corpus Christi Caller-Times Coshocton Tribune The Courier-Journal Courier News Courier-Post Courier-Tribune The Crescent-News Crookston Daily Times The Daily Advertiser Daily American (IL) Daily American (PA) The Daily Comet Daily Commercial The Daily Herald The Daily Independent The Daily Jeffersonian The Daily Journal The Daily Leader The Daily Ledger Daily Messenger The Daily News Journal Daily Press The Daily Record Daily Record The Daily Reporter The Daily Republican Daily Review Atlas The Daily Telegram The Daily Times (Farmington) The Daily Times (Salisbury) Daily World The Daytona Beach News-Journal Deming Headlight Democrat and Chronicle The Des Moines Register Desert Dispatch The Desert Sun Detroit Free Press Devils Lake Journal The Dispatch Dodge City Daily Globe Du Quoin Evening Call El Paso Times Ellwood City Ledger The Enterprise Evansville Courier & Press The Evening News The Evening Sun The Evening Tribune Evening World The Examiner The Fayetteville Observer The Florida Times-Union Florida Today Fort Collins Coloradoan Foster's Daily Democrat The Gadsden Times The Gainesville Sun Garden City Telegram The Gaston Gazette Gaylord Herald Times Great Falls Tribune Green Bay Press-Gazette The Greenville News Hattiesburg American The Hawk Eye Hays Daily News Henderson Gleaner The Herald Democrat The Herald-Mail The Herald News The Herald-Times The Herald Times Reporter Hillsdale Daily News The Holland Sentinel Home News Tribune The Hoosier Topics The Houma Courier The Independent The Indianapolis Star The Inquirer and Mirror The Intelligencer Ionia Sentinel-Standard Iowa City Press-Citizen The Ithaca Journal The Jackson Sun Jacksonville Daily News Journal & Courier The Journal News The Journal Standard Journal Star Kinston Free Press Kitsap Sun Kirksville Daily Express Knoxville News Sentinel Lancaster Eagle-Gazette Lansing State Journal Las Cruces Sun-News The Leader The Leaf-Chronicle Leavenworth Times Lebanon Daily News The Ledger Leesville Daily Leader Lincoln Courier Lubbock Avalanche-Journal Mansfield News Journal The Marion Star Marshfield News-Herald The McDonough County Voice McPherson Sentinel The MetroWest Daily News The Mexico Ledger Milwaukee Journal Sentinel CNI Community Newspapers Miami News Record The Milford Daily News Mineral Daily News-Tribune Moberly Monitor-Index Montgomery Advertiser Mooresville-Decatur Times The Morning Sun Naples Daily News The Neosho Daily News New Jersey Herald News Chief The News Herald The News Leader The News Journal The News-Messenger The News-Press The News-Star The Newton Kansan Noblesville Daily Times Northwest Florida Daily News The Oak Ridger Observer-Dispatch The Oklahoman Olney Daily Mail Old Colony Memorial Oshkosh Northwestern Pacific Daily News Palladium-Item Palm Beach Daily News The Palm Beach Post The Patriot Ledger Pekin Daily Times Pensacola News Journal Petoskey News-Review Pine Bluff Commercial Pocono Record The Portsmouth Herald The Post-Crescent Poughkeepsie Journal Press & Sun-Bulletin The Progress-Index The Providence Journal Public Opinion The Pueblo Chieftain The Record Redding Record Searchlight The Register-Mail Reno Gazette-Journal Record-Courier The Record Herald The Reporter Reporter-Times The Repository Rockford Register Star The Rolla Daily News The St. Augustine Record St. Cloud Times The Salina Journal The Salinas Californian San Angelo Standard-Times Sarasota Herald-Tribune Savannah Morning News The Shawnee News-Star The Sheboygan Press The Shelby Star Silver City Sun News Siskiyou Daily News South Bend Tribune Southside Times Southwest Times Record Spartanburg Herald-Journal The Spectrum Springfield News-Leader The Standard-Times Star-Banner Star Courier Star-Gazette Star-News The Star Press The State Journal-Register Statesman Journal Stevens Point Journal Stephenville Empire-Tribune Stuart News Sturgis Journal Sun Journal (New Bern, North Carolina) Taunton Daily Gazette The Telegram Telegram & Gazette Telegraph-Forum The Tennessean The Times (Little Falls) The Times (Shreveport) The Times Herald Times Herald-Record Times Mail Times-News (Hendersonville) The Times-News (Burlington) Times Record News Times Recorder The Times-Reporter The Topeka Capital-Journal The Town Talk Treasure Coast Newspapers The Tribune-Democrat The Tuscaloosa News Tulare Advance-Register Ventura County Star Vero Beach Press Journal Visalia Times-Delta Watertown Public Opinion Wausau Daily Herald The Wayne Independent Waxahachie Daily Light The Wellington Daily News Wellsville Daily Reporter Wisconsin Rapids Daily Tribune York Daily Record v t e BridgeTower Media business publications in the United States Arizona Capitol Times Casual Living Central Penn Business Journal Charleston Regional Business Journal Columbia Regional Business Report The Countian – Jefferson County The Countian – St. Louis Daily Journal of Commerce (Oregon) Daily Journal of Commerce (Louisiana) Daily Record (Baltimore) The Daily Record (Rochester) The Daily Record – Kansas City The Daily Reporter Designers Today Finance & Commerce Furniture Today GSA Business Gifts & Decorative Accessories Home Accents Today Home Furnishings News Home Textiles Today Idaho Business Review The Journal Record Lehigh Valley Business Long Island Business News Massachusetts Lawyers Weekly The Mecklenburg Times Michigan Lawyers Weekly Minnesota Lawyer Missouri Lawyers Weekly NJBIZ New Orleans CityBusiness North Carolina Lawyers Weekly Pet Age Rhode Island Lawyers Weekly Rochester Business Journal SCBIZ South Carolina Lawyers Weekly St. Charles County Business Record St. Louis Daily Record Virginia Lawyers Weekly Wisconsin Law Journal v t e Newsquest daily newspapers in the United Kingdom The Argus, Brighton The Bolton News Telegraph & Argus, Bradford Daily Gazette, Colchester Bournemouth Daily Echo Dorset Echo Echo, Basildon, Essex Evening Times Greenock Telegraph The Herald, Glasgow News Shopper, South East London & North West Kent Lancashire Telegraph Oxford Mail The National, Scotland The Northern Echo The Press, York Southern Daily Echo, Southampton South Wales Argus Swindon Advertiser Worcester News Predecessors GateHouse Media American Consolidated Media Calkins Media Community Newspaper Company Halifax Media Group Hathaway Publishing Local Media Group Schurz Communications Stephens Media Journal Media Group v t e Jacksonville area-based corporations List of companies in Jacksonville, Florida Fortune 1000 corporations (2017 rank) CSX Corporation (257) Fidelity National Financial (293) FIS (301) Landstar System (699) Publicly traded corporations Ameris Bancorp Black Knight FRP Holdings Patriot Transportation Rayonier Rayonier Advanced Materials Regency Centers Stein Mart Web.com Privately held businesses Acosta Sales & Marketing Bloch Publishing Company Crowley Maritime Elkins Constructors Fanatics Firehouse Subs Florida Blue Florida East Coast Railway Gate Petroleum Haskell Company Huckins Yacht Corporation I Wear Your Shirt Jacksonville Free Press KBJ Architects Larry's Giant Subs M. D. Moody & Sons Mac Papers MedMal Direct Insurance Company Metro Jacksonville MOBRO Marine Reynolds, Smith & Hills Ring Power Safariland St. Vincent's HealthCare Sally Corporation Seward Trunk Co. Southeastern Grocers Stellar Group Swisher International Group Trailer Bridge US Assure VyStar Credit Union US headquarters of foreign businesses Adecco Group North America Association of Tennis Professionals Beeline Buffet Group USA Höegh Autoliners Northgate Information Solutions Venus Fashion Otto Division headquarters of US corporations Florida Coastal School of Law InfiLaw System The Florida Times-Union Gatehouse Media Financial News & Daily Record Observer Media Group Foundation Financial Group Interline Brands The Home Depot Parallel Infrastructure Florida East Coast Industries PSS World Medical McKesson Corporation TIAA Bank TIAA Unison Industries GE Aviation Vistakon Johnson & Johnson Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=The_Florida_Times-Union&oldid=953478582" Categories: 1864 establishments in Florida Brooklyn, Jacksonville Companies based in Jacksonville, Florida Jacksonville Modern architecture Mass media in Jacksonville, Florida Gannett publications Newspapers published in Florida Publications established in 1864 Hidden categories: Articles with short description Use American English from September 2019 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Use mdy dates from September 2019 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Español Français Italiano Edit links This page was last edited on 27 April 2020, at 11:46 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view