https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Columbus_Dispatch
The Columbus Dispatch - Wikipedia
The Columbus Dispatch From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search The Columbus Dispatch The November 5, 2008 front page of The Columbus Dispatch Type Daily newspaper Format compact, three-around Owner(s) Gannett Publisher Alan D. Miller, interim Editor Alan D. Miller Founded 1871 Headquarters 62 E Broad St Columbus, Ohio 43215 US Circulation 81,291 Daily 140,307 Sunday [1] ISSN 1074-097X Website dispatch.com Current offices on Broad Street The Columbus Dispatch is a daily newspaper based in Columbus, Ohio. Its first issue was published on July 1, 1871, and has been the only mainstream daily newspaper in the city since The Columbus Citizen-Journal ceased publication in 1985. In a sale announced on June 3, 2015, ownership of the Dispatch was transferred to GateHouse Media. The Dispatch Broadcast Group, comprising WBNS-AM-FM-TV in Columbus and WTHR in Indianapolis, remained in the hands of the Wolfe family until 2019, when it was sold to Tegna, Inc., which promptly absorbed the firm.[2][3] As of October 26, 2015, Bradley M. Harmon is the newspaper's president and publisher.[4] Alan D. Miller is the editor.[5] Contents 1 History 2 Sections and features 3 Magazines 4 See also 5 References 6 External links History[edit] The paper was founded in June 1871 by a group of 10 printers with US$900 in financial capital. The paper published its first issue as The Daily Dispatch on July 1, 1871, as a four-page paper which cost 4¢ (85¢ in 2019) per copy. The paper was originally an afternoon paper for the city of Columbus, Ohio, which at the time had a population of 32,000. For its first few years, the paper rented a headquarters on North High Street and Lynn Alley in Columbus. It began with 800 subscribers.[6] On April 2, 1888, the paper published its first full-page advertisement, for the Columbus Buggy Company. In 1895, the paper moved its headquarters to the northeast corner of Gay and High streets, a larger building on a site which was previously a grocer. On April 10, the paper published a 72-page edition to mark the move. On December 17, 1899, the paper published its first Sunday edition, a 36-page paper which cost 3¢ (92¢ in 2019), and the daily editions were reduced in price to 2¢ (61¢ in 2019). Two years later on March 3, 1901, the paper published its first color comic strips.[6] The paper, renamed The Columbus Evening Dispatch, changed hands several times in its early years. In 1905, it was purchased by brothers Harry Preston Wolfe and Robert Frederick Wolfe, who originally ran a shoe company. It was not the Wolfes' first entry into journalism; they had purchased the Ohio State Journal two years before. The Dispatch would remain in the hands of the Wolfe family for 110 years. On December 16, 1906, the paper published its first color ad, for Beggs Store. On April 9, 1907, the Dispatch offices were destroyed in a fire, and the building was demolished and rebuilt. In the interlude, the paper ran its offices out of 34/36 North High Street.[6] The paper's editorial staff traditionally has had a conservative slant.[7][8][9] Until it endorsed Hillary Clinton over Donald Trump, the paper's last endorsement of a Democrat as a Presidential candidate had been for the re-election of Woodrow Wilson in 1916.[10] The Dispatch endorsed Democratic gubernatorial candidate Ted Strickland in the 2006 Ohio elections,[11] but endorsed John Kasich, the Republican candidate running against his reelection, in 2010[12] A competing paper, The Columbus Citizen-Journal (known locally as the "C-J", pronounced "See-Jay") was beholden to the Columbus Dispatch for its printing facilities, and controversy surrounded the C-J's demise in 1985. On June 16, 2015, the Dispatch was purchased by the New Media Investment Group.[13] Sections and features[edit] Columbus Dispatch building at 34 South Third Street, across from the Ohio state capitol building The sections of the Dispatch include the Front Section, Nation & World, Metro & State, Business, Sports and Life & Arts. The Food section is included in the Wednesday paper, while Science is published on Sundays. The Weekender section is included in the Thursday paper. A Faith & Values section is included in the Friday paper. Sunday sections include Arts & Leisure, At Home, Insight and comics. Magazines[edit] The Columbus Dispatch also owns the magazines Columbus Monthly, Columbus CEO, Columbus Weddings, Columbus Monthly Home & Garden, Columbus Alive, and Columbus Parent. See also[edit] James Thurber References[edit] ^ "Columbus Dispatch (Columbus, OH)". Ohio News Media Association. Ohio News Media Association. Retrieved 5 May 2019. ^ Weiker, Jim (June 11, 2019). "Wolfe family sells broadcast group, including WBNS-TV, for $535 million". The Columbus Dispatch. GateHouse Media. Retrieved June 11, 2019. ^ "TEGNA Completes Acquisition of Dispatch Broadcast Group’s Leading, Top Ranked Stations in Indianapolis, IN and Columbus, OH", Tegna Inc., August 8, 2019, Retrieved August 8, 2019. ^ (Oct. 16, 2015) "Bradley Harmon named president and publisher of 'Dispatch'," The Columbus Dispatch. Retrieved Nov. 19, 2015. ^ (Aug. 11, 2015) "‘Dispatch’ promotes Alan D. Miller to Editor." The Columbus Dispatch. Retrieved Nov. 19, 2015. ^ a b c Deitch, Linda (July 28, 2011), Memorable milestones in Columbus Dispatch history, The Columbus Dispatch, retrieved October 19, 2011 ^ Lucia Moses, "The Columbus Dispatch", Brandweek, April 30, 2001 ^ "CNN Sunday Morning" [transcript], CNN, October 24, 2004 ^ Terry Smith, "Wearing Thin: Thanks for your letters! Without you, this page would be, yikes, just me", Athens News, January 10, 2005 ^ Kevin Anderson, "Papers back Kerry — but does that help?", BBC News, October 26, 2004 ^ "For governor: Strickland has qualities needed to promote cooperation, progress", Columbus Dispatch, Sunday, October 8, 2006 ^ "Endorsement: Kasich for governor", Columbus Dispatch, Monday October 11, 2010. ^ Malone, JD (2015-06-16). "New Media completes acquisition of 'Dispatch'". The Columbus Dispatch. Retrieved 2015-07-03. External links[edit] Official website v t e Gannett People John Jeffry Louis III (chairman) National assets USA Today Golfweek MMAjunkie.com Reviewed USA Today Sports Weekly v t e Gannett regional daily newspapers in the United States Abilene Reporter-News The Advocate Akron Beacon Journal Alice Echo-News Journal The Alliance Review Amarillo Globe-News The American News Ames Tribune Anderson Independent-Mail Alamogordo Daily News The Ardmoreite Argus Leader The Arizona Republic Asbury Park Press Asheville Citizen-Times Ashland Times-Gazette Athens Banner-Herald The Augusta Chronicle Austin American-Statesman Battle Creek Enquirer The Barnstable Patriot Bartlesville Examiner-Enterprise Bastrop Daily Enterprise The Baxter Bulletin Beauregard Daily News The Beaver County Times Boone News-Republican Boonville Daily News Brownwood Bulletin Bucks County Courier Times The Bulletin Burlington County Times The Burlington Free Press Butler County Times-Gazette Cambridge Chronicle Cape Cod Times Carlsbad Current-Argus The Carmi Times Charlevoix Courier Cheboygan Daily Tribune Chillicothe Constitution-Tribune Chillicothe Gazette The Cincinnati Enquirer The Clarion-Ledger The Columbus Dispatch Commercial Appeal Corpus Christi Caller-Times Coshocton Tribune The Courier-Journal Courier News Courier-Post Courier-Tribune The Crescent-News Crookston Daily Times The Daily Advertiser Daily American (IL) Daily American (PA) The Daily Comet Daily Commercial The Daily Herald The Daily Independent The Daily Jeffersonian The Daily Journal The Daily Leader The Daily Ledger Daily Messenger The Daily News Journal Daily Press The Daily Record Daily Record The Daily Reporter The Daily Republican Daily Review Atlas The Daily Telegram The Daily Times (Farmington) The Daily Times (Salisbury) Daily World The Daytona Beach News-Journal Deming Headlight Democrat and Chronicle The Des Moines Register Desert Dispatch The Desert Sun Detroit Free Press Devils Lake Journal The Dispatch Dodge City Daily Globe Du Quoin Evening Call El Paso Times Ellwood City Ledger The Enterprise Evansville Courier & Press The Evening News The Evening Sun The Evening Tribune Evening World The Examiner The Fayetteville Observer The Florida Times-Union Florida Today Fort Collins Coloradoan Foster's Daily Democrat The Gadsden Times The Gainesville Sun Garden City Telegram The Gaston Gazette Gaylord Herald Times Great Falls Tribune Green Bay Press-Gazette The Greenville News Hattiesburg American The Hawk Eye Hays Daily News Henderson Gleaner The Herald Democrat The Herald-Mail The Herald News The Herald-Times The Herald Times Reporter Hillsdale Daily News The Holland Sentinel Home News Tribune The Hoosier Topics The Houma Courier The Independent The Indianapolis Star The Inquirer and Mirror The Intelligencer Ionia Sentinel-Standard Iowa City Press-Citizen The Ithaca Journal The Jackson Sun Jacksonville Daily News Journal & Courier The Journal News The Journal Standard Journal Star Kinston Free Press Kitsap Sun Kirksville Daily Express Knoxville News Sentinel Lancaster Eagle-Gazette Lansing State Journal Las Cruces Sun-News The Leader The Leaf-Chronicle Leavenworth Times Lebanon Daily News The Ledger Leesville Daily Leader Lincoln Courier Lubbock Avalanche-Journal Mansfield News Journal The Marion Star Marshfield News-Herald The McDonough County Voice McPherson Sentinel The MetroWest Daily News The Mexico Ledger Milwaukee Journal Sentinel CNI Community Newspapers Miami News Record The Milford Daily News Mineral Daily News-Tribune Moberly Monitor-Index Montgomery Advertiser Mooresville-Decatur Times The Morning Sun Naples Daily News The Neosho Daily News New Jersey Herald News Chief The News Herald The News Leader The News Journal The News-Messenger The News-Press The News-Star The Newton Kansan Noblesville Daily Times Northwest Florida Daily News The Oak Ridger Observer-Dispatch The Oklahoman Olney Daily Mail Old Colony Memorial Oshkosh Northwestern Pacific Daily News Palladium-Item Palm Beach Daily News The Palm Beach Post The Patriot Ledger Pekin Daily Times Pensacola News Journal Petoskey News-Review Pine Bluff Commercial Pocono Record The Portsmouth Herald The Post-Crescent Poughkeepsie Journal Press & Sun-Bulletin The Progress-Index The Providence Journal Public Opinion The Pueblo Chieftain The Record Redding Record Searchlight The Register-Mail Reno Gazette-Journal Record-Courier The Record Herald The Reporter Reporter-Times The Repository Rockford Register Star The Rolla Daily News The St. Augustine Record St. Cloud Times The Salina Journal The Salinas Californian San Angelo Standard-Times Sarasota Herald-Tribune Savannah Morning News The Shawnee News-Star The Sheboygan Press The Shelby Star Silver City Sun News Siskiyou Daily News South Bend Tribune Southside Times Southwest Times Record Spartanburg Herald-Journal The Spectrum Springfield News-Leader The Standard-Times Star-Banner Star Courier Star-Gazette Star-News The Star Press The State Journal-Register Statesman Journal Stevens Point Journal Stephenville Empire-Tribune Stuart News Sturgis Journal Sun Journal (New Bern, North Carolina) Taunton Daily Gazette The Telegram Telegram & Gazette Telegraph-Forum The Tennessean The Times (Little Falls) The Times (Shreveport) The Times Herald Times Herald-Record Times Mail Times-News (Hendersonville) The Times-News (Burlington) Times Record News Times Recorder The Times-Reporter The Topeka Capital-Journal The Town Talk Treasure Coast Newspapers The Tribune-Democrat The Tuscaloosa News Tulare Advance-Register Ventura County Star Vero Beach Press Journal Visalia Times-Delta Watertown Public Opinion Wausau Daily Herald The Wayne Independent Waxahachie Daily Light The Wellington Daily News Wellsville Daily Reporter Wisconsin Rapids Daily Tribune York Daily Record v t e BridgeTower Media business publications in the United States Arizona Capitol Times Casual Living Central Penn Business Journal Charleston Regional Business Journal Columbia Regional Business Report The Countian – Jefferson County The Countian – St. Louis Daily Journal of Commerce (Oregon) Daily Journal of Commerce (Louisiana) Daily Record (Baltimore) The Daily Record (Rochester) The Daily Record – Kansas City The Daily Reporter Designers Today Finance & Commerce Furniture Today GSA Business Gifts & Decorative Accessories Home Accents Today Home Furnishings News Home Textiles Today Idaho Business Review The Journal Record Lehigh Valley Business Long Island Business News Massachusetts Lawyers Weekly The Mecklenburg Times Michigan Lawyers Weekly Minnesota Lawyer Missouri Lawyers Weekly NJBIZ New Orleans CityBusiness North Carolina Lawyers Weekly Pet Age Rhode Island Lawyers Weekly Rochester Business Journal SCBIZ South Carolina Lawyers Weekly St. Charles County Business Record St. Louis Daily Record Virginia Lawyers Weekly Wisconsin Law Journal v t e Newsquest daily newspapers in the United Kingdom The Argus, Brighton The Bolton News Telegraph & Argus, Bradford Daily Gazette, Colchester Bournemouth Daily Echo Dorset Echo Echo, Basildon, Essex Evening Times Greenock Telegraph The Herald, Glasgow News Shopper, South East London & North West Kent Lancashire Telegraph Oxford Mail The National, Scotland The Northern Echo The Press, York Southern Daily Echo, Southampton South Wales Argus Swindon Advertiser Worcester News Predecessors GateHouse Media American Consolidated Media Calkins Media Community Newspaper Company Halifax Media Group Hathaway Publishing Local Media Group Schurz Communications Stephens Media Journal Media Group v t e City of Columbus, Ohio Ohio portal Topics Climate Culture City Schools Economy Geography Historical timeline Library system Media Metro Parks City parks People Public art Neighborhoods Arena District Argyle Park The Bottoms Berwick Brewery District Briggsdale Cherry Creek Clintonville Downtown Driving Park East Broad Street Eastside Flytown Forest Park Franklinton Georgian Heights German Village Glen Echo Harrison West Hilltop Holly Hill Italian Village King-Lincoln Bronzeville Linden Milo-Grogan Mount Vernon Murray Hill Near East Side Northwood Park Old North Columbus Old Oaks Olde Towne East Olentangy West Riverbend South Columbus The Short North University District Victorian Village Weinland Park Westgate Woodland Enclaves Bexley Blacklick Estates Brice Grandview Heights Lincoln Village Minerva Park Riverlea Upper Arlington Valleyview Whitehall Worthington Attractions Columbus Zoo and Aquarium Express Live! Franklin Park Conservatory Greater Columbus Convention Center Hollywood Casino Columbus Huntington Park LeVeque Tower Lincoln Theatre Mapfre Stadium Nationwide Arena Newport Music Hall North Market Ohio Stadium Ohio Theatre Palace Theatre Southern Theatre Topiary Garden Value City Arena Zoombezi Bay Government City Council Mayors Police Parks department Columbus City Hall Ohio Judicial Center Ohio Statehouse Franklin County Government Center Colleges and universities Columbus College of Art and Design Columbus State Community College DeVry University Franklin University Miami-Jacobs Career College Ohio Dominican University Ohio Institute of Health Careers Ohio State University Pontifical College Josephinum Trinity Lutheran Seminary Transportation Central Ohio Transit Authority List of routes CoGo Bike Share Historical: Cleveland, Cincinnati, Chicago and St. Louis Railway Cleveland, Columbus and Cincinnati Railroad Columbus and Xenia Railroad Union Station Toledo and Ohio station Airports John Glenn Columbus International Airport Rickenbacker International Airport Bolton Field Ohio State University Airport Sports Columbus Blue Jackets Columbus Clippers Columbus Crew SC Ohio Machine Ohio State Buckeyes Former teams: Columbus Blue Birds Columbus Bullies Columbus Buckeyes Columbus Destroyers Columbus Elite Giants Columbus Quest Ohio Aviators Museums Billy Ireland Cartoon Library & Museum Central Ohio Fire Museum Columbus Museum of Art COSI Jack Nicklaus Museum Kelton House Museum and Garden Ohio History Center Ohio Statehouse Ohio Village Orton Geological Museum Pizzuti Collection Thurber House Wexner Center for the Arts Delaware, Fairfield, and Franklin Counties • Columbus metropolitan area • Ohio • United States Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=The_Columbus_Dispatch&oldid=950844779" Categories: Newspapers published in Columbus, Ohio Publications established in 1871 1871 establishments in Ohio Gannett publications Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Français Edit links This page was last edited on 14 April 2020, at 03:56 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view