https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/USA_Today
USA Today - Wikipedia
USA Today From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search American national daily newspaper This article is about the newspaper. For the education monthly, see USA Today (magazine). For the song by Alan Jackson, see USA Today (song). USA Today USA Today front page (2 February 2017) Type Daily newspaper Format Broadsheet Owner(s) Gannett Founder(s) Al Neuharth Publisher Maribel Perez Wadsworth President Maribel Perez Wadsworth[1] Editor-in-chief Nicole Carroll[1][2] Founded September 15, 1982; 37 years ago (1982-09-15) Language English Headquarters 7950 Jones Branch Drive, McLean, Virginia, 22108 (main) Geneva, Switzerland (international edition) Country United States Circulation 726,906 (daily print) 504,000 (digital only) (as of Feb 20, 2019) Sister newspapers USA Today Sports Weekly ISSN 0734-7456 Website www.usatoday.com Media of the United States List of newspapers Logo until January 2020 USA Today is an internationally distributed American daily middle-market newspaper that is the flagship publication of its owner, Gannett. Founded by Al Neuharth on September 15, 1982, it operates from Gannett's corporate headquarters in McLean, Virginia.[3] It is printed at 37 sites across the United States and at five additional sites internationally. Its dynamic design influenced the style of local, regional, and national newspapers worldwide through its use of concise reports, colorized images, informational graphics, and inclusion of popular culture stories, among other distinct features.[4][5] With a weekly print circulation of 726,906,[6] a digital only subscriber base of 504,000,[7] and an approximate daily readership of 2.6 million,[6] USA Today is ranked first by circulation on the list of newspapers in the United States. It has been shown to maintain a generally centrist audience, in regards to political persuasion.[8] USA Today is distributed in all 50 states, Washington, D.C., and Puerto Rico, and an international edition is distributed in Asia, Canada, Europe, and the Pacific Islands. Contents 1 History 1.1 Newsroom restructuring and 2011 graphical tweaks 1.2 2012 redesign 1.3 Mid-2010s expansion and restructuring 2 Layout and format 2.1 Opinion section 3 Personnel 3.1 Editorial board 4 Related publications and services 4.1 USA Weekend 4.2 USA Today Sports Weekly 4.3 The Big Lead 4.4 USA Today: The Television Show 4.5 VRtually There 5 Awards 6 In popular culture 7 See also 8 References 9 External links History[edit] The genesis of USA Today was on February 29, 1980, when a company task force known as "Project NN" met with Gannett chairman Al Neuharth in Cocoa Beach, Florida to develop a national newspaper. Early regional prototypes included East Bay Today, an Oakland, California-based publication published in the late 1970s to serve as the morning edition of the Oakland Tribune, an afternoon newspaper which Gannett owned at the time.[9] On June 11, 1981, Gannett printed the first prototypes of the proposed publication. The two proposed design layouts were mailed to newsmakers and prominent leaders in journalism, for review and feedback.[5][10] Gannett's board of directors approved the launch of the national newspaper, titled USA Today, on December 5, 1981. At launch, Neuharth was appointed president and publisher of the newspaper, adding those responsibilities to his existing position as Gannett's chief executive officer.[10][11] Gannett announced the launch of the paper on April 20, 1982. USA Today began publishing on September 15, 1982, initially in the Baltimore and Washington, D.C. metropolitan areas for an newsstand price of 25¢ (equivalent to 66¢ today). After selling out the first issue, Gannett gradually expanded the national distribution of the paper, reaching an estimated circulation of 362,879 copies by the end of 1982, double the amount of sales that Gannett projected. The design uniquely incorporated color graphics and photographs. Initially, only its front news section pages were rendered in four-color, while the remaining pages were printed in a spot color format. The paper's overall style and elevated use of graphics – developed by Neuharth, in collaboration with staff graphics designers George Rorick, Sam Ward, Suzy Parker, John Sherlock and Web Bryant – was derided by critics, who referred to it as "McPaper" or "television you can wrap fish in", because it opted to incorporate concise nuggets of information more akin to the style of television news, rather than in-depth stories like traditional newspapers, which many in the newspaper industry considered to be a dumbing down of the news.[10][11][12] Although USA Today had been profitable for just ten years as of 1997, it changed the appearance and feel of newspapers around the world.[13] On July 2, 1984, the newspaper switched from predominantly black-and-white to full color photography and graphics in all four sections. The next week on July 10, USA Today launched an international edition intended for U.S. readers abroad, followed four months later on October 8 with the rollout of the first transmission via satellite of its international version to Singapore. On April 8, 1985, the paper published its first special bonus section, a 12-page section called "Baseball '85", which previewed the 1985 Major League Baseball season.[10] By the fourth quarter of 1985, USA Today had become the second-largest newspaper in the United States, reaching a daily circulation of 1.4 million copies. Total daily readership of the paper by 1987 (according to Simmons Market Research Bureau statistics) had reached 5.5 million, the largest of any daily newspaper in the U.S. On May 6, 1986, USA Today began production of its international edition in Switzerland. USA Today operated at a loss for most of its first four years of operation, accumulating a total deficit of $233 million after taxes, according to figures released by Gannett in July 1987; the newspaper began turning its first profit in May 1987, six months ahead of Gannett corporate revenue projections.[10] On January 29, 1988, USA Today published the largest edition in its history, a 78-page weekend edition featuring a section previewing Super Bowl XXII; the edition included 44.38 pages of advertising and sold 2,114,055 copies, setting a single-day record for an American newspaper (and surpassed seven months later on September 2, when its Labor Day weekend edition sold 2,257,734 copies). On April 15, USA Today launched a third international printing site, based in Hong Kong. The international edition set circulation and advertising records during August 1988, with coverage of the 1988 Summer Olympics, selling more than 60,000 copies and 100 pages of advertising.[10] By July 1991, Simmons Market Research Bureau estimated that USA Today had a total daily readership of nearly 6.6 million, an all-time high and the largest readership of any daily newspaper in the United States. On September 1, 1991, USA Today launched a fourth printsite for its international edition in London for the United Kingdom and the British Isles.[10] The international edition's schedule was changed as of April 1, 1994 to Monday through Friday, rather than from Tuesday through Saturday, in order to accommodate business travelers; on February 1, 1995, USA Today opened its first editorial bureau outside the United States at its Hong Kong publishing facility; additional editorial bureaus were launched in London and Moscow in 1996.[10] On April 17, 1995, USA Today launched its website, www.usatoday.com to provide real-time news coverage; in June 2002 the site expanded to include USATODAY.com Travel, providing travel information and booking tools. On August 28, 1995, a fifth international publishing site was launched in Frankfurt, Germany, to print and distribute the international edition throughout most of Europe.[10] On October 4, 1999, USA Today began running advertisements on its front page for the first time.[10] In 2017, some pages of USA Today's website features Auto-Play functionality for video or audio-aided stories. On February 8, 2000, Gannett launched USA Today Live, a broadcast and Internet initiative designed to provide coverage from the newspaper to broadcast television stations nationwide for use in their local newscasts and their websites; the venture also provided integration with the USA Today website, which transitioned from a text-based format to feature audio and video clips of news content.[10] The paper launched a sixth printing site for its international edition on May 15, 2000, in Milan, Italy, followed on July 10 by the launch of an international printing facility in Charleroi, Belgium.[10] In 2001, two interactive units were launched: on June 19, USA Today and Gannett Newspapers launched the USA Today Careers Network (now Careers.com), a website featuring localized employment listings, then on July 18, the USA Today News Center was launched as an interactive television news service developed through a joint venture with the On Command Corporation that was distributed to hotels around the United States. On September 12 of that year, the newspaper set an all-time single day circulation record, selling 3,638,600 copies for its edition covering the September 11 attacks. That November, USA Today migrated its operations from Gannett's previous corporate headquarters in Arlington, Virginia to the company's new headquarters in nearby McLean.[10] On December 12, 2005, Gannett announced that it would combine the separate newsroom operations of the online and print entities of USA Today, with USAToday.com's vice president and editor-in-chief Kinsey Wilson promoted to co-executive editor, alongside existing executive editor John Hillkirk.[10] In December 2010, USA Today launched the USA Today API for sharing data with partners of all types.[14] Newsroom restructuring and 2011 graphical tweaks[edit] On August 27, 2010, USA Today announced that it would undergo a reorganization of its newsroom, announcing the layoffs of 130 staffers. It also announced that the paper would shift its focus away from print and place more emphasis on its digital platforms (including USAToday.com and its related mobile applications) and launch of a new publication called USA Today Sports. On January 24, 2011, to reverse a revenue slide, the paper introduced a tweaked format that modified the appearance of its front section pages, which included a larger logo at the top of each page; coloring tweaks to section front pages; a new sans-serif font, called Prelo, for certain headlines of main stories (replacing the Gulliver typeface that had been implemented for story headers in April 2000); an updated "Newsline" feature featuring larger, "newsier" headline entry points; and the increasing and decreasing of mastheads and white space to present a cleaner style.[15] 2012 redesign[edit] Miguel Vazquez from USA Today shows off the publication's Metro App, 2012. On September 14, 2012, USA Today underwent the first major redesign in its history, in commemoration for the 30th anniversary of the paper's first edition.[16] Developed in conjunction with brand design firm Wolff Olins, the print edition of USA Today added a page covering technology stories and expanded travel coverage within the Life section and increased the number of color pages included in each edition, while retaining longtime elements.[17] The "globe" logo used since the paper's inception was replaced with a new logo featuring a large circle rendered in colors corresponding to each of the sections, serving as an infographic that changes with news stories, containing images representing that day's top stories.[17][18] The paper's website was also extensively overhauled using a new, in-house content management system known as Presto and a design created by Fantasy Interactive, that incorporates flipboard-style navigation to switch between individual stories (which obscure most of the main and section pages), clickable video advertising and a responsive design layout. The site was designed to be more interactive, provide optimizations for mobile and touchscreen devices, provide "high impact" advertising units, and provide the ability for Gannett to syndicate USA Today content to the websites of its local properties, and vice versa. To accomplish this goal, Gannett migrated its newspaper and television station websites to the Presto platform and the USA Today site design throughout 2013 and 2014 (although archive content accessible through search engines remains available through the pre-relaunch design).[19][20] Mid-2010s expansion and restructuring[edit] On October 6, 2013, Gannett test launched a condensed daily edition of USA Today (part of what was internally known within Gannett as the "Butterfly" initiative) for distribution as an insert in four of its newspapers – The Indianapolis Star, the Rochester Democrat & Chronicle, the Fort Myers-based The News-Press and the Appleton, Wisconsin-based The Post-Crescent. The launch of the syndicated insert caused USA Today to restructure its operations to allow seven-day-a-week production to accommodate the packaging of its national and international news content and enterprise stories (comprising about 10 pages for the weekday and Saturday editions, and up to 22 pages for the Sunday edition) into the pilot insert. Gannett later announced on December 11, that it would formally launch the condensed daily edition of USA Today in 31 additional local newspapers nationwide through April 2014 (with the Palm Springs, California-based The Desert Sun and the Lafayette, Louisiana-based Advertiser being the first newspapers outside of the pilot program participants to add the supplement on December 15), citing "positive feedback" to the feature from readers and advertisers of the initial four papers. Gannett was given permission from the Alliance for Audited Media to count the circulation figures from the syndicated local insert with the total circulation count for the flagship national edition of USA Today.[21][22] On January 4, 2014, USA Today acquired the consumer product review website Reviewed.[23][10] In the first quarter of 2014, Gannett launched a condensed USA Today insert into 31 other newspapers in its network, thereby increasing the number of inserts to 35, in an effort to shore up circulation after it regained its position as the highest circulated week daily newspaper in the United States in October 2013.[21][24] On September 3, 2014, USA Today announced that it would lay off roughly 70 employees in a restructuring of its newsroom and business operations.[25] In October 2014, USA Today and OpenWager Inc. entered into a partnership to release a Bingo mobile app called USA TODAY Bingo Cruise.[26][27] On December 3, 2015, Gannett formally launched the USA Today Network, a national digital newsgathering service providing shared content between USA Today and the company's 92 local newspapers throughout the United States as well as pooling advertising services on both a hyperlocal and national reach. The Louisville Courier-Journal had earlier soft-launched the service as part of a pilot program started on November 17, coinciding with an imaging rebrand for the Louisville, Kentucky-based newspaper; Gannett's other local newspaper properties, as well as those it acquired through its merger with the Journal Media Group, gradually began identifying themselves as part of the USA Today Network (foregoing use of the Gannett name outside of requisite ownership references) through early January 2016.[28][29][30] Layout and format[edit] This February 5, 2009 issue of USA Today shows the old layout and logo of the paper prior to its 2012 redesign. USA Today is known for synthesizing news down to easy-to-read-and-comprehend stories. In the main edition circulated in the United States and Canada, each edition consists of four sections: News (the oft-labeled "front page" section), Money, Sports, and Life. Since March 1998, the Friday edition of Life has been separated into two distinct sections: the regular Life focusing on entertainment (subtitled Weekend; section E), which features television reviews and listings, a DVD column, film reviews and trends, and a travel supplement called Destinations & Diversions (section D). The international edition of the paper features two sections: News and Money in one; with Sports and Life in the other. Atypical of most daily newspapers, the paper does not print on Saturdays and Sundays; the Friday edition serves as the weekend edition (although USA Today has published special Saturday and Sunday editions in the past, the first being published on January 19, 1991, when it released a Saturday "Extra" edition updating coverage of the Gulf War from the previous day; the paper published special seven-day-a-week editions for the first time on July 19, 1996, when it published special editions for exclusive distribution in the host city of Atlanta and surrounding areas for the two-week duration of the 1996 Summer Olympics).[10] USA Today prints each complete story on the front page of the respective section with the exception of the cover story. The cover story is a longer story that requires a jump (readers must turn to another page in the paper to complete the story, usually the next page of that section). On certain days, the news or sports section will take up two paper sections, and there will be a second cover story within the second section. Each section is denoted by a certain color to differentiate sections beyond lettering and is seen in a box the top-left corner of the first page; the principal section colors are blue for News (section A), green for Money (section B), red for Sports (section C), and purple for Life (section D); in the paper's early years, the Life and Money sections were also assigned blue nameplates and spot color, as the presses used at USA Today' printing facilities did not yet accommodate the use of other colors to denote all four original sections.[31] Orange is used for bonus sections (section E or above), which are published occasionally such as for business travel trends and the Olympics; other bonus sections for sports (such as for the PGA Tour preview, NCAA Basketball Tournaments, Memorial Day auto races (Indianapolis 500 and Coca-Cola 600), NFL opening weekend and the Super Bowl) previously used the orange color, but now use the red designated for sports in their bonus sections. To increase their ties to USA Today, Gannett incorporated the USA Today coloring scheme into an internally created graphics package for news programming that the company began phasing in across its television station group – which were spun-off in July 2015 into the separate broadcast and digital media company Tegna – in late 2012 (the package utilizes the color scheme for a rundown graphic used on most stations – outside those that Gannett acquired in 2014 from London Broadcasting, which began implementing the package in late 2015 – that persists throughout its stations' newscasts, as well as bumpers for individual story topics). Gannett's television stations began to a new on-air appearance that uses a color-coding system identical to that of the paper.[32] Original logo, used from 1982 to 2012. In many ways, USA Today is set up to break the typical newspaper layout. Some examples of that divergence from tradition include using the left-hand quarter of each section as reefers (front-page paragraphs referring to stories on inside pages[33]), sometimes using sentence-length blurbs to describe stories inside; the lead reefer is the cover page feature "Newsline", which shows summarized descriptions of headline stories featured in all four main sections and any special sections. As a national newspaper, USA Today cannot focus on the weather for any one city. Therefore, the entire back page of the News section is used for weather maps for the continental United States, Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands, and temperature lists for many cities throughout the U.S. and the world (temperatures for individual cities on the primary forecast map and temperature lists are suffixed with a one- or two-letter code, such as "t" for thunderstorms, referencing the expected weather conditions); the colorized forecast map, originally created by staff designer George Rorick (who left USA Today for a similar position at The Detroit News in 1986), was copied by newspapers around the world, breaking from the traditional style of using monochrome contouring or simplistic text to denote temperature ranges.[12][34] National precipitation maps for the next three days (previously five days until the 2012 redesign), and four-day forecasts and air quality indexes for 36 major U.S. cities (originally 16 cities prior to 1999) – with individual cities color-coded by the temperature contour corresponding to the given area on the forecast map – are also featured. Weather data is provided by AccuWeather, which has served as the forecast provider for USA Today for most of the paper's existence (with an exception from January 2002 to September 2012, when The Weather Channel provided data through a long-term multimedia content agreement with Gannett).[35][36][37][38][39] In the bottom left-hand corner of the weather page is "Weather Focus", a graphic which explains various meteorological phenomena. On some days, the Weather Focus could be a photo of a rare meteorological event. On Mondays, the Money section uses its back page for "Market Trends", a feature that launched in June 2002 and presents an unusual graphic depicting the performance of various industry groups as a function of quarterly, monthly, and weekly movements against the S&P 500. On days featuring bonus sections or business holidays, the Money and Life sections are usually combined into one section, while combinations of the Friday Life editions into one section are common during quiet weeks. Advertising coverage is seen in the Monday Money section, which often includes a review of a current television ad, and after Super Bowl Sunday, a review of the ads aired during the broadcast with the results of the Ad Track live survey. Stock tables for individual stock exchanges (comprising one subsection for companies traded on the New York Stock Exchange, and another for companies trading on NASDAQ and the American Stock Exchange) and mutual indexes were discontinued with the 2012 redesign due to the myriad of electronic ways to check individual stock prices, in line with most newspapers. Book coverage, including reviews and a national sales chart (the latter of which debuted on October 28, 1994), is seen on Thursdays in Life, with the official full A.C. Nielsen television ratings chart printed on Wednesdays or Thursdays, depending on release. The paper also publishes the Mediabase survey for several genres of music, based on radio airplay spins on Tuesdays, along with their own chart of the top ten singles in general on Wednesdays. Because of the same limitations cited for its nationalized forecasts, the television page in Life – which provides prime time and late night listings (running from 8:00 p.m. to 12:30 a.m. Eastern Time Zone) – incorporates a boilerplate "Local news" or "Local programming" descriptions to denote time periods in which the five major English language broadcast networks (ABC, NBC, CBS, Fox and The CW) cede airtime to allow their affiliates to carry syndicated programs or local newscasts; the television page has never been accompanied by a weekly listings supplement with broader scheduling information similar to those featured in local newspapers. Like most national papers, USA Today does not carry comic strips. USA Today is headquartered in Tysons Corner, Virginia. One of the staples of the News section is "Across the USA", a state-by-state roundup of headlines. The summaries consist of paragraph-length Associated Press reports highlighting one story of note in each state, the District of Columbia, and one U.S. territory. Similarly, the "For the Record" page of the Sports section (which features sports scores for both the previous four days of league play and individual non-league events, seasonal league statistics and wagering lines for the current day's games) also features a rundown of winning numbers from the previous deadline date for all participating state lotteries and individual multi-state lotteries. Some traditions have been retained. The lead story still appears on the upper-right hand of the front page. Commentary and political cartoons occupy the last few pages of the News section. Stock and mutual fund data are presented in the Money section. But USA Today is sufficiently different in aesthetics to be recognized on sight, even in a mix of other newspapers, such as at a newsstand. The overall design and layout of USA Today has been described as neo-Victorian.[40] Also, in most of the sections' front pages, on the lower left-hand corner, are "USA Today Snapshots", which give statistics of various lifestyle interests according to the section it is in (for example, a snapshot in "Life" could show how many people tend to watch a certain genre of television show based upon the type of mood they are in at the time). These "Snapshots" are shown through graphs that are made up of various illustrations of objects that roughly pertain to the graphs subject matter (using the example above, the graph's bars could be made up of several TV sets, or ended by one). These are usually loosely based on research by a national institute (with the credited source mentioned in fine print in the box below the graph). The newspaper also features an occasional magazine supplement called Open Air, which launched on March 7, 2008 and appears several times a year. Various other advertorials appear throughout the year, mainly on Fridays.[41][42] Opinion section[edit] The opinion section prints USA Today editorials, columns by guest writers and members of the Editorial Board of Contributors,[43] letters to the editor, and editorial cartoons. One unique feature of the USA Today editorial page is the publication of opposing points of view; alongside the editorial board's piece on the day's topic runs an opposing view by a guest writer, often an expert in the field. The opinion pieces featured in each edition are decided by the Board of Contributors, which are separate from the paper's news staff.[44] From 1999 to 2002 and from 2004 to 2015, the editorial page editor was Brian Gallagher, who has worked for the newspaper since its founding in 1982.[45] Other members of the Editorial Board included deputy editorial page editor Bill Sternberg, executive forum editor John Siniff, op-ed/forum page editor Glen Nishimura, operations editor Thuan Le Elston, letters editor Michelle Poblete, web content editor Eileen Rivers, and editorial writers Dan Carney, George Hager, and Saundra Torry.[46] The newspaper's website calls this group "demographically and ideologically diverse."[44] Beginning with the 1984 United States presidential election, USA Today has traditionally maintained a policy not to endorse candidates for the President of the United States or any other state or federal political office, which has been since re-evaluated by the paper's Board of Contributors through an independent process during each four-year election cycle, with any decision to circumvent the policy based on a consensus vote in which fewer than two of the editorial board's members dissent or hold differing opinions.[47] For most of its history, the paper's political editorials (most of them linked to the then-current Presidential election cycle) had focused instead on providing opinion on major issues based on the differing concerns of voters, the vast amount of information on these themes, and the board's aim to provide a fair viewpoint through the diverse political ideologies of its members and avoid reader perceptions of bias. Such avoidance of doing political editorials played a great part in USA Today's long-standing reputation for "fluff", but after its 30th anniversary revamp, the paper took a more active stance on political issues, calling for stronger gun laws after the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting in 2012. It heavily criticized the Republican Party for both the 2013 government shutdown and the 2015 revolts in the United States House of Representatives that ended with the resignation of John Boehner as House Speaker. It also called out then-President Barack Obama and other top members of the Democratic Party for what they perceived as "inaction" over several issues during 2013–14, particularly over the NSA scandal and the ISIL beheading incidents. The editorial board broke from the "non-endorsement" policy for the first time on September 29, 2016, when it published an op-ed piece condemning the candidacy of Republican nominee Donald Trump, calling him "unfit for the presidency" due to his inflammatory campaign rhetoric (particularly that aimed at the press, with certain media organizations being openly targeted and even banned from campaign rallies, including The New York Times, The Washington Post, CNN and the BBC, military veterans who had been prisoners of war, including 2008 Republican presidential candidate and Vietnam War veteran John McCain, immigrants, and various ethnic and religious groups); his temperament and lack of financial transparency; his "checkered" business record; his use of false and hyperbolic statements; the inconsistency of his viewpoints and issues with his vision on domestic and foreign policy; and, based on comments he has made during his campaign and criticisms by both Democrats and Republicans on these views, the potential risks to national security and constitutional ethics under a Trump administration, asking voters to "resist the siren song of a dangerous demagogue".[48] The board noted that the piece was not a "qualified endorsement" of Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton, for whom the board was unable to reach a consensus for endorsing (some editorial board members expressed that Clinton's public service record would help her "serve the nation ably as its president", while others had "serious reservations about [her] sense of entitlement, [...] lack of candor and [...] extreme carelessness in handling classified information"), endorsing instead tactical voting against Trump and GOP seats in swing states, advising voters to decide whether to vote for either Clinton, Libertarian nominee Gary Johnson, Green Party nominee Jill Stein or a write-in candidate for President; or focus on Senate, House and other down-ballot political races.[49][50][51] In February 2018, USA Today stirred controversy by publishing an op-ed by Jerome Corsi, the DC bureau chief for the fringe conspiracy website InfoWars.[52][53] Corsi, a prominent conspiracy theorist, was described by USA Today as an "author" and "investigative journalist".[52] Corsi was a prominent proponent of the false conspiracy theory that Barack Obama was not a US citizen, and Infowars has promoted conspiracy theories such as 9/11 being an inside job and the Sandy Hook massacre being a hoax staged by child actors.[52] In October 2018, USA Today was criticized for publishing an editorial by President Trump that was replete with inaccuracies.[54] The Washington Post fact-checker said that "almost every sentence contained a misleading statement or a falsehood."[55] Personnel[edit] In May 2012, Larry Kramer – a 40-year media industry veteran and former president of CBS Digital Media – was appointed president and publisher of USA Today, replacing David Hunke, who had been publisher of the newspaper since 2009.[56] Kramer was tasked with developing a new strategy for the paper as it sought to increase revenue from its digital operations.[57] In July 2012, Kramer hired David Callaway – whom the former had hired as lead editor of MarketWatch in 1999, two years after Kramer founded the website – as the paper's editor-in-chief. Callaway had previously worked at Bloomberg News covering the banking, investment-banking and asset-management businesses throughout Europe and at the Boston Herald, where he co-wrote a daily financial column on "comings and goings in the Boston business district".[58] Conservative activist Peter Gemma has written more than 100 op-ed pieces for USA Today.[59] The current Editor-in-Chief is Nicole Carroll, who has served since February 2018.[60] Editorial board[edit] Bill Sternberg David Mastio Jill Lawrence – see Politics Daily Dan Carney Thuan Le Elston Josh Rivera Eileen Rivers Saundra Torry – also active in the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press since 2000 Related publications and services[edit] USA Weekend[edit] Main article: USA Weekend USA Weekend was a sister publication that launched in 1953 as Family Weekly, a national Sunday magazine supplement intended for the Sunday editions of various U.S. newspapers; it adopted its final title following Gannett's purchase of the magazine in 1985.[61] The magazine – which was distributed to approximately 800 newspapers nationwide at its peak with most Gannett-owned local newspapers carrying it by default within their Sunday editions – focused primarily on social issues, entertainment, health, food and travel.[61][62] On December 5, 2014, Gannett announced that it would cease publishing USA Weekend after the December 26–28, 2014 edition, citing increasing operational costs and reduced advertising revenue, with most of its participating newspapers choosing to replace it with competing Sunday magazine Parade.[63][64][65][66][67] USA Today Sports Weekly[edit] Main article: USA Today Sports Weekly USA Today Sports Weekly is a weekly magazine that covers news and statistics from Major League Baseball, Minor League Baseball and NCAA baseball, the National Football League (NFL) and NASCAR. It was first published on April 5, 1991 as USA Today Baseball Weekly, a tabloid-sized baseball-focused publication released on Wednesdays, on a weekly basis during the baseball season and bi-weekly during the off-season; the magazine expanded its sports coverage on September 4, 2002, when it adopted its current title after added stories about the NFL. Sports Weekly added coverage of NASCAR on February 15, 2006, lasting only during that year's race season; and added coverage of NCAA college football on August 8, 2007. The editorial operations of Sports Weekly originally operated autonomously from USA Today, before being integrated with the newspaper's sports department in late 2005.[10][68] The Big Lead[edit] Main article: The Big Lead The Big Lead is a sports blog operated by USA Today that was launched in February 2006 by original owner Fantasy Sports Ventures (co-founded by Jason McIntyre and David Lessa), which was purchased by Gannett – which, beginning in April 2008, had maintained a strategic content and marketing partnership with the former company – in January 2012.[69] The site – which is usually updated on a routine basis of 10 to 15 times per day between 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. Eastern Time – mainly covers sports, but also provides news and commentary on other news topics, ranging from politics to pop culture. USA Today: The Television Show[edit] USA Today: The Television Show Also known as USA Today on TV USA Today Genre News program Created by Grant Tinker Country of origin United States Original language(s) English Production company(s) GTG East Release Original network Broadcast syndication Original release September 12, 1988 (1988-09-12) – January 7, 1990 (1990-01-07) External links Website In 1987, Gannett and producer/former NBC CEO Grant Tinker began developing a news magazine series for broadcast syndication that attempted to bring the breezy style of USA Today to television.[70] The result was USA Today: The Television Show (later retitled USA Today on TV,[71] then shortened to simply USA Today), which premiered on September 12, 1988.[72] Correspondents on the program included Edie Magnus, Robin Young, Boyd Matson, Kenneth Walker, Dale Harimoto, Ann Abernathy, Bill Macatee and Beth Ruyak. As with the newspaper itself, the show was divided into four "sections" corresponding to the different parts of the paper: News (focusing on the major headlines of the day), Money (focusing on financial news and consumer reports), Sports (focusing on sports news and scores) and Life (focusing on entertainment and lifestyle-related stories). The series was plagued by low ratings and negative reviews from critics throughout its run. The program also suffered from being scheduled in undesirable timeslots in certain markets; this was a particular case in New York City, the country's largest media market, where CBS owned-and-operated station WCBS-TV (channel 2) aired the program in a pre-dawn early morning slot, before the program was picked up by NBC O&O WNBC five months into its run; after initially airing it in an equally undesirable 5:30 a.m. slot, the series was later moved to a more palatable 9:30 a.m. time period, but still did not fare any better on its new station[73] (in contrast, CITY-TV in Toronto, Ontario, Canada [now the flagship station of the Citytv television network], ran it at 5:00 p.m.).[74] Although the series was renewed for a second season, these setbacks led to the mid-season cancellation of the TV version of USA Today in November 1989, after one-and-a-half seasons; the final edition aired on January 7, 1990.[75] Gannett announced plans to develop a USA Today-branded weekly half-hour television program, to have been titled Sports Page, as part of a renewed initiative to extend the brand into television; this program, which was tapped for a fall 2004 debut, ultimately never launched.[10] VRtually There[edit] VRtually There is a weekly virtual reality news program produced by the USA Today Network, which debuted on October 20, 2016. The program, which is available on the USA Today mobile app and on YouTube (which maintains content exclusivity through the program's dedicated channel for 60 days after each broadcast), showcases three original segments outlining news stories through a first-person perspective, recorded and produced by journalists from USA Today and its co-owned local newspapers. The program also incorporates "cubemercials", long-form advertisements created by Gannett's in-house creative studio GET Creative, which are designed to allow consumer engagenent in fully immersive experiences through virtual reality.[76][77][78] Awards[edit] USA Today Minor League Player of the Year Award – First presented in 1988, this annual award has been given to a particular Minor league baseball player judged to have had the most outstanding season by a thirteen-person panel of baseball experts.[79] USA Today All-USA high school baseball team – First presented in 1998, the award honors between nine and eleven outstanding baseball players from high schools around the United States to be part on the team (separate awards honoring the High School Baseball Player of the Year and High School Baseball Coach of the Year have been given since 1989[80][81]). USA Today All-USA high school basketball team – First presented in 1983, the award honors outstanding male and female basketball players from high schools around the United States with a place on the team, with one member of each team being named as the High School Basketball Player of the Year as well as coaches from a select boys' and girls' team as the High School Basketball Coach of the Year.[81][81][82][83] USA Today All-Joe Team (NFL) – First presented in 1992 in tribute to Kansas City Chiefs veteran defensive lineman Joe Phillips, the award honors 52 rookie players from throughout the NFL for their exemplary performance during the previous league season.[84] USA Today/National Prep Poll High School Football National Championship – Predating the first publication of USA Today under the sole decision of the National Prep Poll, it is a national championship honor awarded to the best high school football team(s) in the United States, based on rankings decided by the newspaper's sports editorial department. USA Today All-USA high school football team – First presented in 1982, the award honors outstanding football players from high schools around the United States (includes ranks for the Super 25 teams in the U.S. and Top 10 teams in the East, South, Midwest and West, and USA Today High School Football Player of the Year).[85][86] [87][88] USA Today High School Football Coach of the Year – First presented in 1982, the award awards a coach from one of the teams selected for the All-USA football team for the honor. In popular culture[edit] The futuristic logo used in Back to the Future Part II A futuristic 2015 edition of USA Today (Hill Valley edition) is seen in the film Back to the Future Part II (1989). As a tribute to the movie, the newspaper ran a recreation of the front page, featuring the exact headlines portrayed in the movie (except for a piece mentioning a future state visit by "Queen Diana", the Princess having died in 1997), on October 22, 2015, when the protagonist Marty McFly (played by Michael J. Fox) travels to October 21, 2015 and reads the following day's edition of the paper.[89][90] A 1991 episode of The Simpsons ("Homer Defined") featured a parody of the paper ("U.S. of A. News"), whose lead story was "#2 is #1", in reference to pencils. Lisa criticizes the paper's blandness, but Homer retorts that "Hey, this is the only paper in America that's not afraid to tell the truth, that everything is just fine."[91] See also[edit] USA Today Super Bowl Ad Meter Viewtron Virginia portal Journalism portal References[edit] ^ a b "About USA TODAY". USA Today. Gannett. ^ "usatoday.com Staff Index". ^ "Tysons Corner CDP, Virginia". United States Census Bureau. ^ "Press Room : Press Kit". USA Today. Gannett. ^ a b García, Mario R. (September 9, 2012). "USA TODAY turns 30: Part 1". García Media. ^ a b "About USA TODAY". USA Today. ^ "Gannett 4Q print revenue declines but digital subscriptions spike". USA TODAY. February 20, 2019. ^ Desai, Shevon (March 30, 2018). ""Fake News," Lies and Propaganda: How to Sort Fact from Fiction". University of Michigan Library. ^ Warren, James (September 29, 1991). "PAPER PURSUES LIFE AFTER DEBT". Chicago Tribune. ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r "USA TODAY Media Kit :: Press Room :: Press Kit :: Timeline". USA Today. Gannett. ^ a b John K. Hartman (September 12, 2012). "USA Today Is Turning 30, in Danger of 'Marking 30'". Editor and Publisher. ^ a b Mario R. García (September 10, 2012). "USA TODAY turns 30-Part 2—-A newspaper that influenced all of us". García Media. ^ Psvlik, John; Mclntosh, Shawn. Converging Media (Fifth ed.). New York: Oxford. ISBN 978-0-19-027151-0. ^ Hamlin, Ethan (December 8, 2010). "Introducing the Articles API". USA Today. ^ Romenesko, Jim (January 24, 2011). "USA Today tweaks include larger Page One logo". Poynter Institute. ^ Gosling, Emily (September 17, 2012). "Wolff Olins creates new USA Today branding". DesignWeek. ^ a b Hagey, Keach (September 13, 2012). "USA Today Redesigns Paper, Website". The Wall Street Journal. ^ García, Mario R. (September 14, 2012). "USA TODAY turns 30-Part 5-Its First Major Visual Redesign". García Media. ^ "Case Study: Gannett's monumental task – A content management system for all". Poynter Institute. July 7, 2014. ^ García, Mario R. (September 17, 2012). "It's a new website rethink for USA TODAY, too". García Media. ^ a b "Gannett to distribute USA TODAY edition to 35 papers". USA Today. Gannett. December 11, 2013. ^ Johnston, David Cay (December 11, 2013). "Placing a bet on USA Today". Columbia Journalism Review. ^ "USA TODAY Acquires Reviewed.com" (Press release). PR Newswire. January 4, 2014. ^ Haughney, Christine (December 10, 2013). "Gannett to Add USA Today to Local Papers". The New York Times. ^ "USA Today Cuts 70 Employees From Newsroom and Business Staff". The New York Times. September 3, 2014. ^ "OpenWager and USA TODAY Partner to Launch New Bingo App". BingoReviewer. October 2, 2014. ^ "OpenWager Partners with USA TODAY to Unveil USA TODAY Bingo Cruise" (Press release). PR Newswire. October 2, 2014. ^ "Gannett Unites Largest Local to National Media Network under 'USA TODAY NETWORK'" (Press release). Business Wire. December 3, 2015. ^ Yu, Roger (December 4, 2015). "Gannett introduces USA TODAY NETWORK, uniting local, national properties". USA Today. Gannett. ^ Edmonds, Rick (December 3, 2015). "Gannett rebrands its local papers as USA TODAY Network". Poynter Institute. ^ Mario R. García (September 12, 2012). "USA TODAY turns 30-Part 4-The first newspaper to do that tango of the serious and the silly". García Media. ^ Marszalek, Diana (January 15, 2013). "Gannett Stations Clean Up Their Graphics". TVNewsCheck. ^ "Reefer, noun 3". Dictionary.com. ^ Mario R. García (September 11, 2012). "USA TODAY turns 30-Part 3—A weather map that created a global tsunami". García Media. ^ "AccuWeather Announces New Partnership With USA Today". AccuWeather (Press release). AccuWeather, Inc. September 17, 2012. ^ "AccuWeather Chosen by USA TODAY to Help Deliver the News of the Future" (Press release). AccuWeather. September 14, 2012. ^ "The Weather Channel is Named Premier Weather Provider for USA TODAY" (Press release). Business Wire. January 14, 2002 – via Bloomberg News. ^ Samenow, Jason (November 15, 2012). "AccuWeather celebrates 50-year anniversary". The Washington Post. ^ Nichols, Laura (November 19, 2012). "AccuWeather Commemorates 50 Years With Year-Long Celebration". The State College. ^ Barnhurst, Kevin G. (2006). "After Modernism". American Media in the XX Century: Chapter 1 (part 5). University of Illinois at Chicago. The mélange of styles and practices in printed and now web-based newspapers, although postmodern in terms of scholarly and design thinking, might more meaningfully be understood as neo-Victorian. The new styles, embodied most famously in USA Today and its clones, mark a return to the mystifying abundance of facts and stories that newspapers of the industrial revolution made visually present to readers. ^ "USA Today Launches "Open Air"". AdWeek. December 10, 2007. ^ Sass, Erik (December 11, 2007). "Gannett To Launch 'Open Air', MSLO Shutters 'Blueprint'". MediaPost. ^ "USA Today's Opinion columnists". USA Today. Gannett. August 29, 2011. ^ a b "About USA Today Editorials/Debate". USA Today. Gannett. April 6, 2010. ^ "Changes at USA Today Editorial Board" (Press release). Cision. May 15, 2015. ^ "USA Today's Editorial Board". USA Today. Gannett. April 6, 2010. ^ "Why we're breaking tradition: Our view". USA Today. Gannett. September 29, 2016. ^ "USA TODAY's Editorial Board: Trump is 'unfit for the presidency'". USA Today. Gannett. September 29, 2016. ^ Wemple, Erik (September 30, 2016). "USA Today maroons readers with un-endorsement of Donald Trump". The Washington Post. ^ Schultheis, Emily (September 29, 2016). "USA Today breaks non-endorsement tradition". CBS News. ^ Mason, Melanie (September 29, 2016). "'Don't vote for Trump,' says USA Today in first presidential endorsement in its history". Los Angeles Times. ^ a b c Darcy, Oliver (February 28, 2018). "USA Today publishes op-ed by InfoWars conspiracy theorist". CNN. ^ HANANOKI, ERIC (February 28, 2018). "USA Today published an op-ed from a conspiracy theorist who works for Alex Jones". Salon. ^ "USA Today criticized for printing Trump op-ed despite alleged inaccuracies". NBC News. October 10, 2018. ^ Kessler, Glenn (October 10, 2018). "Analysis | Fact-checking President Trump's USA Today op-ed on 'Medicare-for-All'". The Washington Post. ^ "USA TODAY publisher to retire in September". USA Today. Gannett. April 10, 2012. ^ "USA Today Publisher Larry Kramer Looks to a Local Future". HuffPost. December 5, 2012. ^ Wilkerson, David B. (July 10, 2012). "Callaway to become top USA Today editor". MarketWatch. ^ "About Peter B. Gemma". peterbgemma.com. ^ "Nicole Carroll Named USA TODAY Editor in Chief". USA Today. February 14, 2018. ^ a b "Gannett Gets Family Weekly". The New York Times. February 22, 1985. ^ "Gannett folds USA Weekend Magazine". Portada. December 7, 2014. ^ Elliott, Stuart (December 11, 2014). "Consolidation Coming in Sunday Magazines". The New York Times. ^ Brauer, David (August 19, 2009). "Star Tribune plans to dump USA Weekend, pick up Parade". MinnPost. ^ Chariton, Jordan (December 5, 2014). "USA Today Shuttering USA Weekend Magazine". The Wrap. ^ Bazilian, Emma (December 5, 2014). "USA Today Shutters Weekend Magazine - USA Weekend was the country's second-largest news mag". Adweek. ^ Yu, Roger (December 5, 2014). "USA TODAY to end publication of USA WEEKEND". USA Today. ^ Potts, Mark (January 29, 1991). "Another Pitch for Baseball Fans; USA Today Plans Weekly Publication to Start on April 5". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on February 25, 2016 – via HighBeam Research. ^ Kafka, Peter (January 24, 2012). "Gannett Buys Big Lead Sports Owner Fantasy Sports Ventures". AllThingsD. ^ "And Now, Folks... Here's Tomorrow's News New Show, New Concept – A Newspaper on TV". The Boston Globe. December 15, 1987. Archived from the original on January 17, 2013 – via HighBeam Research. ^ USA Today On TV 1989 Intro And Outro on YouTube ^ "Now, Here's the Good News...;USA Today's TV Spinoff, Focusing on 'the Journalism of Hope'". The Washington Post. September 12, 1988. Archived from the original on January 17, 2013 – via HighBeam Research. ^ "'USA Today on TV' Remains a Secret in NYC". Albany Times Union. August 21, 1988. Archived from the original on January 17, 2013 – via HighBeam Research. ^ Michaud, Christopher (September 12, 1988). "TV's USA Today served to viewers as a 'side dish' to network news". Toronto Star. Reuters. p. C6. ^ "'USA Today on TV' Axed; Low Ratings Lead Gannett, Tinker to Cancel". The Washington Post. November 23, 1989. Archived from the original on January 17, 2013 – via HighBeam Research. ^ "USA TODAY NETWORK Releases Its First Branded VR News Show 'VRtually There'". USA Today. Gannett. October 20, 2016. ^ Fink, Charlie (May 11, 2017). "'VRtually There' Season Two Makes USA Today The Leading 360 VR News Producer". Forbes. ^ Guaglione, Sara (October 20, 2016). "USA Today Network Debuts 'VRtually There'". MediaPost. ^ "Alex Bregman Named USA Today Minor League Player of the Year". Major League Baseball. September 6, 2016. ^ "Baseball: Players and Coaches of the Year (1989–1998)". USA Today. Gannett. March 8, 1999. ^ a b c "Super 25 and All-USA archive". USA Today. Gannett. ^ "Basketball: Boys' players and coaches of year (1982–2006)". USA Today. Gannett. June 20, 2006. ^ "Basketball: Girls' players and coaches of year (1982–2006)". USA Today. Gannett. January 17, 2007. ^ Davis, Nate (January 26, 2011). "All-Joe Team: The unheralded prime performers from NFL '10". USA Today. Gannett. ^ "USA Today All-USA teams 1982–2001". USA Today. Gannett. December 25, 2001. ^ "Recent All-USA teams". USA Today. Gannett Company. ^ "Football: Players and Coaches of the Year (1982–2005)". USA Today. Gannett. June 26, 2006. ^ "Super 25 and All-USA archive". USA Today. Gannett. ^ Deutsch, Lindsay (October 22, 2015). "Fans race to get 'Back to the Future' paper". USA Today. Gannett. ^ Epstein, Adam (October 21, 2015). "This is the cover of USA Today for "Back to the Future" day". Quartz. ^ "1 brush with fame for USA TODAY". USA Today. February 7, 2003. External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to USA Today. Official website v t e Current White House James S. Brady Press Briefing Room seating chart Row Podium 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 NBC Wall Street Journal Agence France-Presse MSNBC Bloomberg BNA Washington Examiner Univision Fox News CBS Radio AP Radio Foreign Pool Time Yahoo! News Dallas Morning News CBS News Bloomberg McClatchy Washington Times Sirius XM Salem Radio Globe/Roll Call AP NPR AURN The Hill Regionals Newsmax CBN ABC News Washington Post Politico Fox News Radio CSM/NY Post Daily Mail BBC/OAN Reuters NY Times Chicago Tribune VOA RealClearPolitics HuffPost/NY Daily News BuzzFeed/Daily Beast CNN USA Today ABC Radio National Journal Al Jazeera/PBS Westwood One Financial Times/Guardian White House Correspondents' Association v t e Gannett People John Jeffry Louis III (chairman) National assets USA Today Golfweek MMAjunkie.com Reviewed USA Today Sports Weekly v t e Gannett regional daily newspapers in the United States Abilene Reporter-News The Advocate Akron Beacon Journal Alice Echo-News Journal The Alliance Review Amarillo Globe-News The American News Ames Tribune Anderson Independent-Mail Alamogordo Daily News The Ardmoreite Argus Leader The Arizona Republic Asbury Park Press Asheville Citizen-Times Ashland Times-Gazette Athens Banner-Herald The Augusta Chronicle Austin American-Statesman Battle Creek Enquirer The Barnstable Patriot Bartlesville Examiner-Enterprise Bastrop Daily Enterprise The Baxter Bulletin Beauregard Daily News The Beaver County Times Boone News-Republican Boonville Daily News Brownwood Bulletin Bucks County Courier Times The Bulletin Burlington County Times The Burlington Free Press Butler County Times-Gazette Cambridge Chronicle Cape Cod Times Carlsbad Current-Argus The Carmi Times Charlevoix Courier Cheboygan Daily Tribune Chillicothe Constitution-Tribune Chillicothe Gazette The Cincinnati Enquirer The Clarion-Ledger The Columbus Dispatch Commercial Appeal Corpus Christi Caller-Times Coshocton Tribune The Courier-Journal Courier News Courier-Post Courier-Tribune The Crescent-News Crookston Daily Times The Daily Advertiser Daily American (IL) Daily American (PA) The Daily Comet Daily Commercial The Daily Herald The Daily Independent The Daily Jeffersonian The Daily Journal The Daily Leader The Daily Ledger Daily Messenger The Daily News Journal Daily Press The Daily Record Daily Record The Daily Reporter The Daily Republican Daily Review Atlas The Daily Telegram The Daily Times (Farmington) The Daily Times (Salisbury) Daily World The Daytona Beach News-Journal Deming Headlight Democrat and Chronicle The Des Moines Register Desert Dispatch The Desert Sun Detroit Free Press Devils Lake Journal The Dispatch Dodge City Daily Globe Du Quoin Evening Call El Paso Times Ellwood City Ledger The Enterprise Evansville Courier & Press The Evening News The Evening Sun The Evening Tribune Evening World The Examiner The Fayetteville Observer The Florida Times-Union Florida Today Fort Collins Coloradoan Foster's Daily Democrat The Gadsden Times The Gainesville Sun Garden City Telegram The Gaston Gazette Gaylord Herald Times Great Falls Tribune Green Bay Press-Gazette The Greenville News Hattiesburg American The Hawk Eye Hays Daily News Henderson Gleaner The Herald Democrat The Herald-Mail The Herald News The Herald-Times The Herald Times Reporter Hillsdale Daily News The Holland Sentinel Home News Tribune The Hoosier Topics The Houma Courier The Independent The Indianapolis Star The Inquirer and Mirror The Intelligencer Ionia Sentinel-Standard Iowa City Press-Citizen The Ithaca Journal The Jackson Sun Jacksonville Daily News Journal & Courier The Journal News The Journal Standard Journal Star Kinston Free Press Kitsap Sun Kirksville Daily Express Knoxville News Sentinel Lancaster Eagle-Gazette Lansing State Journal Las Cruces Sun-News The Leader The Leaf-Chronicle Leavenworth Times Lebanon Daily News The Ledger Leesville Daily Leader Lincoln Courier Lubbock Avalanche-Journal Mansfield News Journal The Marion Star Marshfield News-Herald The McDonough County Voice McPherson Sentinel The MetroWest Daily News The Mexico Ledger Milwaukee Journal Sentinel CNI Community Newspapers Miami News Record The Milford Daily News Mineral Daily News-Tribune Moberly Monitor-Index Montgomery Advertiser Mooresville-Decatur Times The Morning Sun Naples Daily News The Neosho Daily News New Jersey Herald News Chief The News Herald The News Leader The News Journal The News-Messenger The News-Press The News-Star The Newton Kansan Noblesville Daily Times Northwest Florida Daily News The Oak Ridger Observer-Dispatch The Oklahoman Olney Daily Mail Old Colony Memorial Oshkosh Northwestern Pacific Daily News Palladium-Item Palm Beach Daily News The Palm Beach Post The Patriot Ledger Pekin Daily Times Pensacola News Journal Petoskey News-Review Pine Bluff Commercial Pocono Record The Portsmouth Herald The Post-Crescent Poughkeepsie Journal Press & Sun-Bulletin The Progress-Index The Providence Journal Public Opinion The Pueblo Chieftain The Record Redding Record Searchlight The Register-Mail Reno Gazette-Journal Record-Courier The Record Herald The Reporter Reporter-Times The Repository Rockford Register Star The Rolla Daily News The St. Augustine Record St. Cloud Times The Salina Journal The Salinas Californian San Angelo Standard-Times Sarasota Herald-Tribune Savannah Morning News The Shawnee News-Star The Sheboygan Press The Shelby Star Silver City Sun News Siskiyou Daily News South Bend Tribune Southside Times Southwest Times Record Spartanburg Herald-Journal The Spectrum Springfield News-Leader The Standard-Times Star-Banner Star Courier Star-Gazette Star-News The Star Press The State Journal-Register Statesman Journal Stevens Point Journal Stephenville Empire-Tribune Stuart News Sturgis Journal Sun Journal (New Bern, North Carolina) Taunton Daily Gazette The Telegram Telegram & Gazette Telegraph-Forum The Tennessean The Times (Little Falls) The Times (Shreveport) The Times Herald Times Herald-Record Times Mail Times-News (Hendersonville) The Times-News (Burlington) Times Record News Times Recorder The Times-Reporter The Topeka Capital-Journal The Town Talk Treasure Coast Newspapers The Tribune-Democrat The Tuscaloosa News Tulare Advance-Register Ventura County Star Vero Beach Press Journal Visalia Times-Delta Watertown Public Opinion Wausau Daily Herald The Wayne Independent Waxahachie Daily Light The Wellington Daily News Wellsville Daily Reporter Wisconsin Rapids Daily Tribune York Daily Record v t e BridgeTower Media business publications in the United States Arizona Capitol Times Casual Living Central Penn Business Journal Charleston Regional Business Journal Columbia Regional Business Report The Countian – Jefferson County The Countian – St. Louis Daily Journal of Commerce (Oregon) Daily Journal of Commerce (Louisiana) Daily Record (Baltimore) The Daily Record (Rochester) The Daily Record – Kansas City The Daily Reporter Designers Today Finance & Commerce Furniture Today GSA Business Gifts & Decorative Accessories Home Accents Today Home Furnishings News Home Textiles Today Idaho Business Review The Journal Record Lehigh Valley Business Long Island Business News Massachusetts Lawyers Weekly The Mecklenburg Times Michigan Lawyers Weekly Minnesota Lawyer Missouri Lawyers Weekly NJBIZ New Orleans CityBusiness North Carolina Lawyers Weekly Pet Age Rhode Island Lawyers Weekly Rochester Business Journal SCBIZ South Carolina Lawyers Weekly St. Charles County Business Record St. Louis Daily Record Virginia Lawyers Weekly Wisconsin Law Journal v t e Newsquest daily newspapers in the United Kingdom The Argus, Brighton The Bolton News Telegraph & Argus, Bradford Daily Gazette, Colchester Bournemouth Daily Echo Dorset Echo Echo, Basildon, Essex Evening Times Greenock Telegraph The Herald, Glasgow News Shopper, South East London & North West Kent Lancashire Telegraph Oxford Mail The National, Scotland The Northern Echo The Press, York Southern Daily Echo, Southampton South Wales Argus Swindon Advertiser Worcester News Predecessors GateHouse Media American Consolidated Media Calkins Media Community Newspaper Company Halifax Media Group Hathaway Publishing Local Media Group Schurz Communications Stephens Media Journal Media Group v t e Pulitzer Prize for Explanatory Reporting As Pulitzer Prize for Explanatory Journalism (1985–1997) 1985–1989) Jon Franklin (1985) Staff of The New York Times (1986) Jeff Lyon (1987 shared) Peter Gorne (1987 shared) Daniel Hertzberg (1988 shared) James B. Stewart (1988 shared) David Hanners (1989 shared) William Snyder (1989 shared) Karen Blessen (1989 shared) 1990–1999) David A. Vise (1990 shared) Steve Coll (1990 shared) Susan C. Faludi (1991) Robert S. Capers (1992 shared) Eric Lipton (1992 shared) Mike Toner (1993) Ronald Kotulak (1994) Leon Dash (1995 shared) Lucian Perkins (1995 shared) Laurie Garrett (1996) Michael Vitez (1997 shared) April Saul (1997 shared) Ron Cortes (1997 shared) As Pulitzer Prize for Explanatory Reporting (1998–2018) 1998–1999) Paul Salopek (1998) Richard Read (1999) 2000–2009) Eric Newhouse (2000) Staff of the Chicago Tribune (2001) Staff of The New York Times (2002) Staff of The Wall Street Journal (2003) Kevin Helliker (2004 shared) Thomas M. Burton (2004 shared) Gareth Cook (2005) David Finkel (2006) Kenneth R. Weiss (2007 shared) Usha Lee McFarling (2007 shared) Rick Loomis (2007 shared) Amy Harmon (2008) Bettina Boxall (2009 shared) Julie Cart (2009 shared) 2010–2018) Michael Moss (2010 shared) Staff of The New York Times (2010 shared) Mark Johnson (2011 shared) Kathleen Gallagher (2011 shared) Gary Porter (2011 shared) Lou Saldivar (2011 shared) Alison Sherwood (2011 shared) David Kocieniewski (2012) Staff of The New York Times (2013 shared) David Barboza (2013 shared) Charles Duhigg (2013 shared) David Kocieniewski (2013 shared) Steve Lohr (2013 shared) John Markoff (2013 shared) David Segal (2013 shared) David Streitfeld (2013 shared) Hiroko Tabuchi (2013 shared) Bill Vlasic (2013 shared) Eli Saslow (2014) Zachary R. Mider (2015) T. Christian Miller (2016 shared) Ken Armstrong (2016 shared) International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (2017 shared) McClatchy (2017 shared) Miami Herald (2017 shared) Staff of The Arizona Republic (2018 shared) Staff of USA Today Network (2018 shared) v t e Daily newspapers in Virginia Bristol Herald Courier (Bristol) Culpeper Star-Exponent (Culpeper) Daily News-Record (Harrisonburg) Daily Press (Newport News) The Daily Progress (Charlottesville) Danville Register & Bee (Danville) The Free Lance–Star (Fredericksburg) Martinsville Bulletin (Martinsville) The News & Advance (Lynchburg) The News Leader (Staunton) The News Virginian (Waynesboro) The Northern Virginia Daily (Strasburg) The Progress-Index (Petersburg) Richmond Times-Dispatch (Richmond) The Roanoke Times (Roanoke) The Southwest Times (Pulaski) Suffolk News-Herald (Suffolk) USA Today (Tysons Corner) The Virginian-Pilot (Norfolk) The Winchester Star (Winchester) Authority control BIBSYS: 6080091 BNF: cb12090791c (data) GND: 4271440-0 ISNI: 0000 0004 0463 6858 LCCN: no98023753 VIAF: 185592886 WorldCat Identities (via LCCN): no98-023753 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=USA_Today&oldid=952562023" Categories: USA Today Companies based in McLean, Virginia Gannett publications National newspapers published in the United States Publications established in 1982 Daily newspapers published in the United States 1982 establishments in the United States Universal Windows Platform apps Daily newspapers published in Virginia First-run syndicated television programs in the United States 1988 American television series debuts 1990 American television series endings 1980s American television series 1990s American television series 1980s American television news programs 1990s American television news programs English-language television programs Entertainment news shows in the United States Pulitzer Prize for Explanatory Journalism winners Hidden categories: Articles with short description Use American English from December 2019 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Use mdy dates from December 2019 Pages using infobox television with deprecated parameters Commons category link from Wikidata Wikipedia articles with BIBSYS identifiers Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers Wikipedia articles with WorldCat-LCCN identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikinews Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Afrikaans العربية Asturianu Azərbaycanca Български Català Čeština Dansk Deutsch Eesti Ελληνικά Español Esperanto Euskara فارسی Français Frysk Galego 한국어 Հայերեն Bahasa Indonesia Italiano עברית Қазақша Latviešu Lietuvių Magyar Македонски مصرى Bahasa Melayu Nederlands 日本語 Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Occitan Polski Português Română Русский Саха тыла Scots Simple English Slovenčina Suomi Svenska Tarandíne ไทย Тоҷикӣ Türkçe Українська Tiếng Việt 吴语 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 22 April 2020, at 22:10 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view