https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Central_Intelligence_Agency
Central Intelligence Agency - Wikipedia
Central Intelligence Agency From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search National intelligence agency of the United States "CIA" redirects here. For other uses, see CIA (disambiguation). Central Intelligence Agency Seal of the Central Intelligence Agency Flag of the Central Intelligence Agency CIA headquarters, Langley, Virginia Agency overview Formed September 18, 1947; 72 years ago (1947-09-18) Preceding agency Office of Strategic Services[1] Type Independent, but reports to the Office of the Director of National Intelligence Headquarters George Bush Center for Intelligence Langley, Virginia, U.S. 38°57′07″N 77°08′46″W﻿ / ﻿38.95194°N 77.14611°W﻿ / 38.95194; -77.14611 Motto "The Work of a Nation. The Center of Intelligence." Unofficial motto: "And ye shall know the truth and the truth shall make you free." (John 8:32)[2] Employees 21,575 (estimate)[3] Annual budget $15 billion (as of 2013[update])[3][4][5] Agency executives Gina Haspel, Director Vaughn Bishop, Deputy Director Courtney Simmons Elwood, General Counsel Website cia.gov The Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) is a civilian foreign intelligence service of the federal government of the United States, tasked with gathering, processing, and analyzing national security information from around the world, primarily through the use of human intelligence (HUMINT). As one of the principal members of the United States Intelligence Community (IC), the CIA reports to the Director of National Intelligence and is primarily focused on providing intelligence for the President and Cabinet of the United States. Unlike the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), which is a domestic security service, the CIA has no law enforcement function and is mainly focused on overseas intelligence gathering, with only limited domestic intelligence collection.[6] Though it is not the only agency of the federal government of the United States specializing in HUMINT, the CIA serves as the national manager for coordination of HUMINT activities across the U.S. intelligence community. Moreover, the CIA is the only agency authorized by law to carry out and oversee covert action at the behest of the President.[6][7][8][9] It exerts foreign political influence through its tactical divisions, such as the Special Activities Center.[10] The CIA was also instrumental in establishing intelligence services in several U.S. allied countries, such as Germany's BND. Before the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004, the CIA Director concurrently served as the head of the Intelligence Community; today, the CIA is organized under the Director of National Intelligence (DNI). Despite transferring some of its powers to the DNI, the CIA has grown in size as a result of the September 11 attacks. In 2013, The Washington Post reported that in the fiscal year 2010, the CIA had the largest budget of all IC agencies, exceeding previous estimates.[3][11] The CIA has increasingly expanded its role, including covert paramilitary operations.[3] One of its largest divisions, the Information Operations Center (IOC), has shifted focus from counter-terrorism to offensive cyber-operations.[12] Contents 1 Purpose 2 Organizational structure 2.1 Executive Office 2.2 Directorate of Analysis 2.3 Directorate of Operations 2.4 Directorate of Science and Technology 2.5 Directorate of Support 2.6 Directorate of Digital Innovation 3 Training 4 Budget 5 Employees 5.1 Polygraphing 6 Relationship with other intelligence agencies 6.1 U.S. agencies 6.2 Foreign intelligence services 7 History 7.1 Immediate predecessors 7.2 National Security Act 7.3 Intelligence vs. action 7.4 Korean War 7.5 1953 Iranian coup d'état 7.6 1954 Guatemalan coup d'état 7.7 Syria 7.8 Indonesia 7.9 Democratic Republic of the Congo 7.10 Gary Powers U-2 shootdown 7.11 Dominican Republic 7.12 Bay of Pigs 7.13 Early Cold War, 1953–1966 7.14 Brazil 7.15 Indochina, Tibet and the Vietnam War (1954–1975) 7.15.1 Johnson 7.16 Nixon 7.17 Congressional Investigations 7.18 Chad 7.19 Afghanistan 7.20 Iran/Contra 7.20.1 Lebanon 7.21 Pakistan 7.22 India–Pakistan geopolitical tensions 7.23 Poland 1980–1989 7.24 Operation Desert Storm 7.25 Fall of the USSR 7.26 President Clinton 7.26.1 Aldrich Ames 7.27 Osama bin Laden 7.27.1 Al-Qaeda and the Global War on Terrorism 7.27.2 September 11 attacks and its aftermath 7.27.3 Use of vaccination program in hunt for Osama bin Laden 7.28 Failures in intelligence analysis 7.29 Abuses of CIA authority, 1970s–1990s 7.30 Iraq War 7.31 2004, DNI takes over CIA top-level functions 7.32 Operation Neptune Spear 7.33 Syrian Civil War 7.34 Reorganization 7.35 Drones 7.36 Encryption devices sold through front company 8 Open source intelligence 9 Outsourcing and privatization 10 Controversies 11 In fiction 12 See also 13 Notes 14 References 15 Further reading 16 External links Purpose When the CIA was created, its purpose was to create a clearinghouse for foreign policy intelligence and analysis. Today its primary purpose is to collect, analyze, evaluate, and disseminate foreign intelligence, and to perform covert actions. According to its fiscal 2013 budget, the CIA has five priorities:[3] Counterterrorism, the top priority Nonproliferation of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction. Warning/informing American leaders of important overseas events. Counterintelligence Cyber intelligence. Organizational structure Gina Haspel, the current Director of the Central Intelligence Agency Chart showing the organization of the Central Intelligence Agency. Main article: Organizational structure of the Central Intelligence Agency The CIA has an executive office and five major directorates: The Directorate of Digital Innovation The Directorate of Analysis The Directorate of Operations The Directorate of Support The Directorate of Science and Technology Executive Office The Director of the Central Intelligence Agency (D/CIA) is appointed by the President with Senate confirmation and reports directly to the Director of National Intelligence (DNI); in practice, the CIA director interfaces with the Director of National Intelligence (DNI), Congress, and the White House, while the Deputy Director (DD/CIA) is the internal executive of the CIA and the Chief Operating Officer (COO/CIA), known as Executive Director until 2017, leads the day-to-day work[13] as the third highest post of the CIA.[14] The Deputy Director is formally appointed by the Director without Senate confirmation,[14][15] but as the President's opinion plays a great role in the decision,[15] the Deputy Director is generally considered a political position, making the Chief Operating Officer the most senior non-political position for CIA career officers.[16] The Executive Office also supports the U.S. military by providing it with information it gathers, receiving information from military intelligence organizations, and cooperates with field activities. The Executive Director is in charge of the day-to-day operation of the CIA. Each branch of the military service has its own Director.[17] The Associate Director of military affairs, a senior military officer, manages the relationship between the CIA and the Unified Combatant Commands, who produce and deliver to the CIA regional/operational intelligence and consume national intelligence produced by the CIA.[18][19] Directorate of Analysis The Directorate of Analysis, through much of its history known as the Directorate of Intelligence (DI), is tasked with helping "the President and other policymakers make informed decisions about our country's national security" by looking "at all the available information on an issue and organiz[ing] it for policymakers".[20] The Directorate has four regional analytic groups, six groups for transnational issues, and three that focus on policy, collection, and staff support.[21] There is an office dedicated to Iraq; regional analytical offices covering the Near East and South Asia, Russia and Europe; and the Asian Pacific, Latin American, and African offices. Directorate of Operations Main article: Directorate of Operations (CIA) The Directorate of Operations is responsible for collecting foreign intelligence (mainly from clandestine HUMINT sources), and for covert action. The name reflects its role as the coordinator of human intelligence activities between other elements of the wider U.S. intelligence community with their HUMINT operations. This Directorate was created in an attempt to end years of rivalry over influence, philosophy and budget between the United States Department of Defense (DOD) and the CIA. In spite of this, the Department of Defense recently organized its own global clandestine intelligence service, the Defense Clandestine Service (DCS),[22] under the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA). This Directorate is known to be organized by geographic regions and issues, but its precise organization is classified.[23] Directorate of Science and Technology Main article: Directorate of Science & Technology The Directorate of Science & Technology was established to research, create, and manage technical collection disciplines and equipment. Many of its innovations were transferred to other intelligence organizations, or, as they became more overt, to the military services. For example, the development of the U-2 high-altitude reconnaissance aircraft was done in cooperation with the United States Air Force. The U-2's original mission was clandestine imagery intelligence over denied areas such as the Soviet Union.[24] It was subsequently provided with signals intelligence and measurement and signature intelligence capabilities, and is now operated by the Air Force. A DS&T organization analyzed imagery intelligence collected by the U-2 and reconnaissance satellites called the National Photointerpretation Center (NPIC), which had analysts from both the CIA and the military services. Subsequently, NPIC was transferred to the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA). Directorate of Support Main article: Directorate of Support The Directorate of Support has organizational and administrative functions to significant units including: The Office of Security The Office of Communications The Office of Information Technology Directorate of Digital Innovation The Directorate of Digital Innovation (DDI) focuses on accelerating innovation across the Agency's mission activities. It is the Agency's newest directorate. The Langley, Virginia-based office's mission is to streamline and integrate digital and cybersecurity capabilities into the CIA's espionage, counterintelligence, all-source analysis, open-source intelligence collection and covert action operations.[25] It provides operations personnel with tools and techniques to use in cyber operations. It works with information technology infrastructure and practices cyber tradecraft.[26] This means retrofitting the CIA for cyberwarfare. DDI officers help accelerate the integration of innovative methods and tools to enhance the CIA's cyber and digital capabilities on a global scale and ultimately help safeguard the United States. They also apply technical expertise to exploit clandestine and publicly available information (also known as open source data) using specialized methodologies and digital tools to plan, initiate and support the technical and human-based operations of the CIA.[27] Before the establishment of the new digital directorate, offensive cyber operations were undertaken by the CIA's Information Operations Center.[28] Little is known about how the office specifically functions or if it deploys offensive cyber capabilities.[25] The directorate had been covertly operating since approximately March 2015 but formally began operations on October 1, 2015.[29] According to classified budget documents, the CIA's computer network operations budget for fiscal year 2013 was $685.4 million. The NSA's budget was roughly $1 billion at the time.[30] Rep. Adam Schiff, the California Democrat who serves as the ranking member of the House Intelligence Committee, endorsed the reorganization. "The director has challenged his workforce, the rest of the intelligence community and the nation to consider how we conduct the business of intelligence in a world that is profoundly different from 1947, when the CIA was founded," Schiff said.[31] Training Further information: CIA University, Sherman Kent School for Intelligence Analysis, Camp Peary, Harvey Point, and Warrenton Training Center The CIA established its first training facility, the Office of Training and Education, in 1950. Following the end of the Cold War, the CIA's training budget was slashed, which had a negative effect on employee retention.[32][33] In response, Director of Central Intelligence George Tenet established CIA University in 2002.[32][20] CIA University holds between 200 and 300 courses each year, training both new hires and experienced intelligence officers, as well as CIA support staff.[32][33] The facility works in partnership with the National Intelligence University, and includes the Sherman Kent School for Intelligence Analysis, the Directorate of Analysis' component of the university.[20][34][35] For later stage training of student operations officers, there is at least one classified training area at Camp Peary, near Williamsburg, Virginia. Students are selected, and their progress evaluated, in ways derived from the OSS, published as the book Assessment of Men, Selection of Personnel for the Office of Strategic Services.[36] Additional mission training is conducted at Harvey Point, North Carolina.[37] The primary training facility for the Office of Communications is Warrenton Training Center, located near Warrenton, Virginia. The facility was established in 1951 and has been used by the CIA since at least 1955.[38][39] Budget Main article: United States intelligence budget Details of the overall United States intelligence budget are classified.[3] Under the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949, the Director of Central Intelligence is the only federal government employee who can spend "un-vouchered" government money.[40] The government showed its 1997 budget was $26.6 billion for the fiscal year.[41] The government has disclosed a total figure for all non-military intelligence spending since 2007; the fiscal 2013 figure is $52.6 billion. According to the 2013 mass surveillance disclosures, the CIA's fiscal 2013 budget is $14.7 billion, 28% of the total and almost 50% more than the budget of the National Security Agency. CIA's HUMINT budget is $2.3 billion, the SIGINT budget is $1.7 billion, and spending for security and logistics of CIA missions is $2.5 billion. "Covert action programs," including a variety of activities such as the CIA's drone fleet and anti-Iranian nuclear program activities, accounts for $2.6 billion.[3] There were numerous previous attempts to obtain general information about the budget.[42] As a result, reports revealed that CIA's annual budget in Fiscal Year 1963 was $550 million (inflation-adjusted US$ 4.6 billion in 2020),[43] and the overall intelligence budget in FY 1997 was US $26.6 billion (inflation-adjusted US$ 42.4 billion in 2020).[44] There have been accidental disclosures; for instance, Mary Margaret Graham, a former CIA official and deputy director of national intelligence for collection in 2005, said that the annual intelligence budget was $44 billion,[45] and in 1994 Congress accidentally published a budget of $43.4 billion (in 2012 dollars) in 1994 for the non-military National Intelligence Program, including $4.8 billion for the CIA.[3] After the Marshall Plan was approved, appropriating $13.7 billion over five years, 5% of those funds or $685 million were made available to the CIA.[46] Employees This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it. (May 2019) Polygraphing Robert Baer, a CNN analyst and former CIA operative, stated that normally a CIA employee undergoes a polygraph examination every three to four years.[47] Relationship with other intelligence agencies Part of a series on Global surveillance Disclosures Origins Pre-2013 2013–present Reactions Systems XKeyscore PRISM ECHELON Carnivore Dishfire Stone Ghost Tempora Frenchelon Fairview MYSTIC DCSN Boundless Informant Bullrun Pinwale Stingray SORM RAMPART-A Agencies NSA CSE BND CNI ASIO DGSE Five Eyes FSB MSS People Michael S. Rogers Keith Alexander James Bamford James Clapper Duncan Campbell Edward Snowden Russ Tice George W. Bush Barack Obama Julian Assange Places The Doughnut Fort Meade Menwith Hill Pine Gap Southern Cross Cable Utah Data Center Bad Aibling Station Dagger Complex Laws Five Eyes UKUSA Agreement Lustre U.S. USA Freedom Act FISA amendments EU Data Retention Directive Data Protection Directive Proposed changes U.S. FISA Improvements Act Other proposals Concepts Mass surveillance Culture of fear Secure communication SIGINT Call detail record Surveillance issues in smart cities Related topics Espionage Intelligence agency Cryptography Tor VPNs TLS Human rights Privacy Liberty Satellites Stop Watching Us Nothing to hide argument v t e The CIA acts as the primary US HUMINT and general analytic agency, under the Director of National Intelligence, who directs or coordinates the 16 member organizations of the United States Intelligence Community. In addition, it obtains information from other U.S. government intelligence agencies, commercial information sources, and foreign intelligence services.[citation needed] U.S. agencies CIA employees form part of the National Reconnaissance Office (NRO) workforce, created as a joint office of the CIA and US Air Force to operate the spy satellites of the US military. The Special Collections Service is a joint CIA and National Security Agency (NSA) office that conducts clandestine electronic surveillance in embassies and hostile territory throughout the world. Foreign intelligence services The role and functions of the CIA are roughly equivalent to those of Germany's Federal Intelligence Service (BND), the United Kingdom's Secret Intelligence Service (the SIS or MI6), the Australian Secret Intelligence Service (ASIS), the French foreign intelligence service Direction générale de la Sécurité extérieure (DGSE), the Russian Foreign Intelligence Service (Sluzhba Vneshney Razvedki, SVR), the Chinese Ministry of State Security (MSS), the Indian Research and Analysis Wing (RAW), the Pakistani Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), the Egyptian General Intelligence Service, Israel's Mossad, and South Korea's National Intelligence Service (NIS). While the preceding agencies both collect and analyze information, some like the U.S. State Department's Bureau of Intelligence and Research are purely analytical agencies.[citation needed] The CIA was instrumental in the establishment of intelligence services in several U.S. allied countries, including Germany's BND. The closest links of the U.S. IC to other foreign intelligence agencies are to Anglophone countries: Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and the United Kingdom. Special communications signals that intelligence-related messages can be shared with these four countries.[48] An indication of the United States' close operational cooperation is the creation of a new message distribution label within the main U.S. military communications network. Previously, the marking of NOFORN (i.e., No Foreign Nationals) required the originator to specify which, if any, non-U.S. countries could receive the information. A new handling caveat, USA/AUS/CAN/GBR/NZL Five Eyes, used primarily on intelligence messages, gives an easier way to indicate that the material can be shared with Australia, Canada, United Kingdom, and New Zealand. The task of the division called "Verbindungsstelle 61" of the German Bundesnachrichtendienst is keeping contact to the CIA office in Wiesbaden.[49] Ireland's Directorate of Military Intelligence liaises with the CIA, although it is not a member of the Five Eyes.[50] History This section should include only a brief summary of History of the Central Intelligence Agency. See Wikipedia:Summary style for information on how to properly incorporate it into this article's main text. (September 2017) The 113 stars on the CIA Memorial Wall in the original CIA headquarters, each representing a CIA officer killed in action Main article: History of the Central Intelligence Agency The Central Intelligence Agency was created on July 26, 1947 when Harry S. Truman signed the National Security Act into law. A major impetus for the creation of the agency was growing tensions with the USSR following the end of World War II.[51] Immediate predecessors The success of the British Commandos during World War II prompted U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt to authorize the creation of an intelligence service modeled after the British Secret Intelligence Service (MI6), and Special Operations Executive. This led to the creation of the Office of Strategic Services (OSS). On September 20, 1945, shortly after the end of World War II, Harry S Truman signed an executive order dissolving the OSS, and by October 1945 its functions had been divided between the Departments of State and War. The division lasted only a few months. The first public mention of the "Central Intelligence Agency" appeared on a command-restructuring proposal presented by Jim Forrestal and Arthur Radford to the U.S. Senate Military Affairs Committee at the end of 1945.[52] Despite opposition from the military establishment, the United States Department of State and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI),[53] Truman established the National Intelligence Authority[54] in January 1946. Its operational extension was known as the Central Intelligence Group (CIG),[55] which was the direct predecessor of the CIA.[56] National Security Act Lawrence Houston, head counsel of the SSU, CIG, and, later CIA, was principal draftsman of the National Security Act of 1947,[57][58] which dissolved the NIA and the CIG, and established both the National Security Council and the Central Intelligence Agency.[55][59] In 1949 Houston helped to draft the Central Intelligence Agency Act (Public law 81-110), which authorized the agency to use confidential fiscal and administrative procedures, and exempted it from most limitations on the use of Federal funds. It also exempted the CIA from having to disclose its "organization, functions, officials, titles, salaries, or numbers of personnel employed." It created the program "PL-110" to handle defectors and other "essential aliens" who fell outside normal immigration procedures.[60][61] Intelligence vs. action At the outset of the Korean War the CIA still only had a few thousand employees, a thousand of whom worked in analysis. Intelligence primarily came from the Office of Reports and Estimates, which drew its reports from a daily take of State Department telegrams, military dispatches, and other public documents. The CIA still lacked its intelligence gathering abilities.[62] On August 21, 1950, shortly after the invasion of South Korea, Truman announced Walter Bedell Smith as the new Director of the CIA to correct what was seen as a grave failure of Intelligence.[clarification needed][62] The CIA had different demands placed on it by the various bodies overseeing it. Truman wanted a centralized group to organize the information that reached him,[63][64] the Department of Defense wanted military intelligence and covert action, and the State Department wanted to create global political change favorable to the US. Thus the two areas of responsibility for the CIA were covert action and covert intelligence. One of the main targets for intelligence gathering was the Soviet Union, which had also been a priority of the CIA's predecessors.[63][64][65] The United States Air Force general Hoyt Vandenberg, the CIG's second director, created the Office of Special Operations (OSO), as well as the Office of Reports and Estimates (ORE).[64] Initially the OSO was tasked with spying and subversion overseas with a budget of $15 million, the largesse of a small number of patrons in Congress. Vandenberg's goals were much like the ones set out by his predecessor; finding out "everything about the Soviet forces in Eastern and Central Europe – their movements, their capabilities, and their intentions."[66] On June 18, 1948, the National Security Council issued Directive 10/2[67] calling for covert action against the USSR,[68] and granting the authority to carry out covert operations against "hostile foreign states or groups" that could, if needed, be denied by the U.S. government. To this end, the Office of Policy Coordination (OPC) was created inside the new CIA. The OPC was unique; Frank Wisner, the head of the OPC, answered not to the CIA Director, but to the secretaries of defense, state, and the NSC and the OPC's actions were a secret even from the head of the CIA. Most CIA stations had two station chiefs, one working for the OSO, and one working for the OPC.[69] The early track record of the CIA was poor, with the agency unable to provide sufficient intelligence about the Soviet takeovers of Romania and Czechoslovakia, the Soviet blockade of Berlin, and the Soviet atomic bomb project. In particular, the agency failed to predict the Chinese entry into the Korean War with 300,000 troops.[70][71] The famous double agent Kim Philby was the British liaison to American Central Intelligence. Through him, the CIA coordinated hundreds of airdrops inside the iron curtain, all compromised by Philby. Arlington Hall, the nerve center of CIA cryptanalysis, was compromised by Bill Weisband, a Russian translator and Soviet spy.[72] CIA director Allen Dulles on the cover of Time magazine, 1953 However, the CIA was successful in influencing the 1948 Italian election in favor of the Christian Democrats.[73] The $200 million Exchange Stabilization Fund, earmarked for the reconstruction of Europe, was used to pay wealthy Americans of Italian heritage. Cash was then distributed to Catholic Action, the Vatican's political arm, and directly to Italian politicians. This tactic of using its large fund to purchase elections was frequently repeated in the subsequent years.[74] Korean War See also: History of the Central Intelligence Agency § Korean War At the beginning of the Korean War, CIA officer Hans Tofte claimed to have turned a thousand North Korean expatriates into a guerrilla force tasked with infiltration, guerrilla warfare, and pilot rescue.[75] In 1952 the CIA sent 1,500 more expatriate agents north. Seoul station chief Albert Haney would openly celebrate the capabilities of those agents, and the information they sent.[75] In September 1952 Haney was replaced by John Limond Hart, a Europe veteran with a vivid memory for bitter experiences of misinformation.[75] Hart was suspicious of the parade of successes reported by Tofte and Haney and launched an investigation which determined that the entirety of the information supplied by the Korean sources was false or misleading.[76] After the war, internal reviews by the CIA would corroborate Hart's findings. The CIA's Seoul station had 200 officers, but not a single speaker of Korean.[76] Hart reported to Washington that Seoul station was hopeless, and could not be salvaged. Loftus Becker, Deputy Director of Intelligence, was sent personally to tell Hart that the CIA had to keep the station open to save face. Becker returned to Washington, pronounced the situation to be "hopeless," and that, after touring the CIA's Far East operations, the CIA's ability to gather intelligence in the far east was "almost negligible".[76] He then resigned. Air Force Colonel James Kallis stated that CIA director Allen Dulles continued to praise the CIA's Korean force, despite knowing that they were under enemy control.[77] When China entered the war in 1950, the CIA attempted a number of subversive operations in the country, all of which failed due to the presence of double agents. Millions of dollars were spent in these efforts.[78] These included a team of young CIA officers airdropped into China who were ambushed, and CIA funds being used to set up a global heroin empire in Burma's Golden Triangle following a betrayal by another double agent.[78] 1953 Iranian coup d'état Main article: 1953 Iranian coup d'état In 1951, Mohammad Mosaddegh, a member of the National Front, was elected Iranian prime-minister.[79] As prime minister, he nationalized the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company which his predecessor had supported. The nationalization of the British-funded Iranian oil industry, including the largest oil refinery in the world, was disastrous for Mossadeq. A British naval embargo closed the British oil facilities, which Iran had no skilled workers to operate. In 1952, Mosaddegh resisted the royal refusal to approve his Minister of War and resigned in protest. The National Front took to the streets in protest. Fearing a loss of control, the military pulled its troops back five days later, and Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi gave in to Mosaddegh's demands. Mosaddegh quickly replaced military leaders loyal to the Shah with those loyal to him, giving him personal control over the military. Given six months of emergency powers, Mosaddegh unilaterally passed legislation. When that six months expired, his powers were extended for another year. In 1953, Mossadegh dismissed parliament and assumed dictatorial powers. This power grab triggered the Shah to exercise his constitutional right to dismiss Mosaddegh. Mosaddegh launched a military coup as the Shah fled the country. Under CIA Director Allen Dulles, Operation Ajax was put into motion. Its goal was to overthrow Mossadegh with military support from General Fazlollah Zahedi and install a pro-western regime headed by the Shah of Iran. Kermit Roosevelt Jr. oversaw the operation in Iran.[80] On August 16, his new inner military circle protected a CIA paid mob led by Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini would spark what a US embassy officer called "an almost spontaneous revolution"[81] but Mosaddegh, and the CIA had been unable to gain influence within the Iranian military. Their chosen man, former general Fazlollah Zahedi, had no troops to call on.[82] After the failure of the first coup, Roosevelt paid demonstrators to pose as communists and deface public symbols associated with the Shah. This August 19 incident helped foster public support of the Shah and led gangs of citizens on a spree of violence intent on destroying Mossadegh.[83] An attack on his house would force Mossadegh to flee. He surrendered the next day, and his coup came to an end.[84] 1954 Guatemalan coup d'état Main article: 1954 Guatemalan coup d'état When democratically elected President Jacobo Árbenz attempted a modest redistribution of land, he was overthrown in the 1954 CIA Guatemalan coup d'état The return of the Shah to power, and the impression, cultivated by Allen Dulles, that an effective CIA had been able to guide that nation to friendly and stable relations with the West triggered planning for Operation PBSUCCESS, a plan to overthrow Guatemalan President Jacobo Arbenz.[85] The plan was exposed in major newspapers before it happened after a CIA agent left plans for the coup in his Guatemala City hotel room.[86] The Guatemalan Revolution of 1944–54 overthrew the U.S. backed dictator Jorge Ubico and brought a democratically elected government to power. The government began an ambitious agrarian reform program attempting to grant land to millions of landless peasants. This program threatened the land holdings of the United Fruit Company, who lobbied for a coup by portraying these reforms as communist.[87][88][89][90] On June 18, 1954, Carlos Castillo Armas led 480 CIA-trained men across the border from Honduras into Guatemala. The weapons had also come from the CIA.[91] The CIA also mounted a psychological campaign to convince the Guatemalan people and government that Armas' victory was a fait accompli, the largest part of which was a radio broadcast entitled "The Voice of Liberation" which announced that Guatemalan exiles led by Castillo Armas were shortly about to liberate the country.[91] On June 25, a CIA plane bombed Guatemala City, destroying the government's main oil reserves. Árbenz ordered the army to distribute weapons to local peasants and workers.[92] The army refused, forcing Jacobo Árbenz's resignation on June 27, 1954. Árbenz handed over power to Colonel Carlos Enrique Diaz.[92] The CIA then orchestrated a series of power transfers that ended with the confirmation of Castillo Armas as president in July 1954.[92] Armas was the first in a series of military dictators that would rule the country, triggering the brutal Guatemalan Civil War in which some 200,000 people were killed, mostly by the U.S.-backed military.[87][93][94][95][96][97] Syria Main article: CIA activities in Syria In 1949, Colonel Adib Shishakli rose to power in Syria in a CIA-backed coup. Four years later, he would be overthrown by the military, Ba'athists, and communists. The CIA and MI6 started funding right-wing members of the military but suffered a huge setback in the aftermath of the Suez Crisis. CIA Agent Rocky Stone, who had played a minor role in the Iranian Revolution, was working at the Damascus embassy as a diplomat but was the station chief. Syrian officers on the CIA dole quickly appeared on television stating that they had received money from "corrupt and sinister Americans" "in an attempt to overthrow the legitimate government of Syria."[98] Syrian forces surrounded the embassy and rousted Agent Stone, who confessed and subsequently made history as the first American diplomat expelled from an Arab nation. This strengthened ties between Syria and Egypt, helping establish the United Arab Republic, and poisoning the well for the US for the foreseeable future.[98] President Kennedy presents the National Security Medal to Allen Dulles, November 28, 1961 Indonesia Main article: CIA activities in Indonesia See also: Indonesian mass killings of 1965–66 The charismatic leader of Indonesia was President Sukarno. His declaration of neutrality in the Cold War put the suspicions of the CIA on him. After Sukarno hosted Bandung Conference, promoting the Non-Aligned Movement, the Eisenhower White House responded with NSC 5518 authorizing "all feasible covert means" to move Indonesia into the Western sphere.[99] The US had no clear policy on Indonesia. Eisenhower sent his special assistant for security operations, F. M. Dearborn Jr., to Jakarta. His report that there was high instability, and that the US lacked stable allies, reinforced the domino theory. Indonesia suffered from what he described as "subversion by democracy".[100] The CIA decided to attempt another military coup in Indonesia, where the Indonesian military was trained by the US, had a strong professional relationship with the US military, had a pro-American officer corps that strongly supported their government, and a strong belief in civilian control of the military, instilled partly by its close association with the US military.[101] On September 25, 1957, Eisenhower ordered the CIA to start a revolution in Indonesia with the goal of regime change. Three days later, Blitz, a Soviet-controlled weekly in India,[102] reported that the US was plotting to overthrow Sukarno. The story was picked up by the media in Indonesia. One of the first parts of the operation was an 11,500-ton US Navy ship landing at Sumatra, delivering weapons for as many as 8,000 potential revolutionaries.[103][failed verification] The CIA described Agent Al Pope's bombing and strafing of Indonesia in a CIA B-26 to the President as attacks by "dissident planes." Pope's B-26 was shot down over Ambon, Indonesia on May 18, 1958, and he bailed out. When he was captured, the Indonesian military found his personnel records, after-action reports, and his membership card for the officer's club at Clark Field. On March 9, Foster Dulles, the Secretary of State, and brother of DCI Allen Dulles made a public statement calling for a revolt against communist despotism under Sukarno. Three days later, the CIA reported to the White House that the Indonesian Army's actions against the CIA-instigated revolution were suppressing communism.[104] After Indonesia, Eisenhower displayed mistrust of both the CIA and its Director, Allen Dulles. Dulles too displayed mistrust of the CIA itself. Abbot Smith, a CIA analyst who later became chief of the Office of National Estimates, said, "We had constructed for ourselves a picture of the USSR, and whatever happened had to be made to fit into this picture. Intelligence estimators can hardly commit a more abominable sin." Something reflected in intelligence failure in Indonesia. On December 16, Eisenhower received a report from his intelligence board of consultants that said the agency was "incapable of making objective appraisals of its own intelligence information as well as its own operations."[105] Democratic Republic of the Congo Main article: CIA activities in the Democratic Republic of the Congo In the election of Patrice Lumumba, and his acceptance of Soviet support the CIA saw another possible Cuba. This view swayed the White House. Eisenhower ordered that Lumumba be "eliminated." The CIA delivered a quarter of a million dollars to Joseph Mobutu, their favored Congolese political figure. Mobutu delivered Lumumba to the Belgians, the former colonial masters of Congo, who executed him in short order.[106] Gary Powers U-2 shootdown Main article: 1960 U-2 incident Suspended from the ceiling of the glass-enclosed atrium: three models of the U-2, Lockheed A-12, and D-21 drone. These models are exact replicas at one-sixth scale of the real planes. All three had photographic capabilities. The U-2 was one of the first espionage planes developed by the CIA. The A-12 set unheralded flight records. The D-21 drone was one of the first crewless aircraft ever built. Lockheed Martin Corporation donated all three models to the CIA. After the Bomber gap came the Missile Gap. Eisenhower wanted to use the U-2 to disprove the Missile Gap, but he had banned U-2 overflights of the USSR after meeting Secretary Khrushchev at Camp David. Another reason the President objected to the use of the U-2 was that, in the nuclear age, the intelligence he needed most was on their intentions, without which, the US would face a paralysis of intelligence. He was particularly worried that U-2 flights could be seen as preparations for first-strike attacks. He had high hopes for an upcoming meeting with Khrushchev in Paris. Eisenhower finally gave into CIA pressure to authorize a 16-day window for flights, which was extended an additional six days because of poor weather. On May 1, 1960, the USSR shot down a U-2 flying over the Soviet territory. To Eisenhower, the ensuing coverup destroyed his perceived honesty and his hope of leaving a legacy of thawing relations with Khrushchev. It would also mark the beginning of a long downward slide in the credibility of the Office of the President of the United States. Eisenhower later said that the U-2 coverup was the greatest regret of his presidency.[107]:160 Dominican Republic See also: History of the Central Intelligence Agency § Dominican Republic The human rights abuses of Generalissimo Rafael Trujillo had a history of more than three decades, but in August 1960 the United States severed diplomatic relations. The CIA's Special group had decided to arm Dominicans in hopes of an assassination. The CIA had dispersed three rifles and three .38 revolvers, but things paused as Kennedy assumed office. An order approved by Kennedy resulted in the dispersal of four machine guns. Trujillo died from gunshot wounds two weeks later. In the aftermath, Robert Kennedy wrote that the CIA had succeeded where it had failed many times in the past, but in the face of that success, it was caught flatfooted, having failed to plan what to do next.[108] Bay of Pigs Main article: Bay of Pigs invasion See also: Assassination attempts on Fidel Castro See also: History of the Central Intelligence Agency § Cuba The CIA recruited Sam Giancana (pictured), Santo Trafficante and other mobsters to assassinate Fidel Castro.[109] The CIA welcomed Fidel Castro on his visit to DC, and gave him a face-to-face briefing. The CIA hoped that Castro would bring about a friendly democratic government, and planned to curry his favor with money and guns. On December 11, 1959, a memo reached the DCI's desk recommending Castro's "elimination." Dulles replaced the word "elimination" with "removal," and set the wheels in motion. By mid-August 1960, Dick Bissell would seek, with the blessing of the CIA, to hire the Mafia to assassinate Castro.[110] The Bay of Pigs Invasion was a failed military invasion of Cuba undertaken by the CIA-sponsored paramilitary group Brigade 2506 on April 17, 1961. A counter-revolutionary military, trained and funded by the CIA, Brigade 2506 fronted the armed wing of the Democratic Revolutionary Front (DRF) and intended to overthrow the increasingly communist government of Fidel Castro. Launched from Guatemala, the invading force was defeated within three days by the Cuban Revolutionary Armed Forces, under the direct command of Prime Minister Fidel Castro. US President Dwight D. Eisenhower was concerned at the direction Castro's government was taking, and in March 1960, Eisenhower allocated $13.1 million to the CIA to plan Castro's overthrow. The CIA proceeded to organize the operation with the aid of various Cuban counter-revolutionary forces, training Brigade 2506 in Guatemala. Over 1,400 paramilitaries set out for Cuba by boat on April 13. Two days later on April 15, eight CIA-supplied B-26 bombers attacked Cuban airfields. On the night of April 16, the main invasion landed in the Bay of Pigs, but by April 20, the invaders finally surrendered. The failed invasion strengthened the position of Castro's leadership as well as his ties with the USSR. This led eventually to the events of the Cuban Missile Crisis of 1962. The invasion was a major embarrassment for US foreign policy. US President John F. Kennedy ordered a number of internal investigations across Latin America.[citation needed] The Taylor Board was commissioned to determine what went wrong in Cuba. The Board came to the same conclusion that the Jan '61 President's Board of Consultants on Foreign Intelligence Activities had concluded, and many other reviews prior, and to come, that Covert Action had to be completely isolated from intelligence and analysis. The Inspector General of the CIA investigated the Bay of Pigs. He concluded that there was a need to improve the organization and management of the CIA drastically. The Special Group (Later renamed the 303 Committee) was convened in an oversight role.[citation needed] Early Cold War, 1953–1966 Lockheed U-2 "Dragon Lady", the first generation of near-space reconnaissance aircraft Early CORONA/KH-4B imagery IMINT satellite The USAF's SR-71 Blackbird was developed from the CIA's A-12 OXCART. The CIA was involved in anti-Communist activities in Burma, Guatemala, and Laos.[111] There have been suggestions that the Soviet attempt to put missiles into Cuba came, indirectly, when they realized how badly they had been compromised by a US–UK defector in place, Oleg Penkovsky.[112] One of the most significant operations ever undertaken by the CIA was directed at Zaïre in support of general-turned-dictator Mobutu Sese Seko.[113] Brazil Main article: 1964 Brazilian coup d'état The CIA and the United States government were involved in the 1964 Brazilian coup d'état. The coup occurred from March 31 to April 1, which resulted in the Brazilian Armed Forces ousting President João Goulart. The United States saw Goulart as a left-wing threat in Latin America. Secret cables written by the US Ambassador to Brazil, Lincoln Gordon, confirmed that the CIA was involved in covert action in Brazil. The CIA encouraged "pro-democracy street rallies" in Brazil, for instance, to create dissent against Goulart.[114] Indochina, Tibet and the Vietnam War (1954–1975) Main articles: CIA Tibetan program, CIA activities in Vietnam, Vietnam War, Phoenix Program, Operation Barrel Roll, CIA activities in Laos, and Laotian Civil War The OSS Patti mission arrived in Vietnam near the end of World War II, and had significant interaction with the leaders of many Vietnamese factions, including Ho Chi Minh.[115] The CIA Tibetan program consisted of political plots, propaganda distribution, and paramilitary and intelligence gathering based on U.S. commitments made to the Dalai Lama in 1951 and 1956.[116] During the period of U.S. combat involvement in the Vietnam War, there was considerable argument about progress among the Department of Defense under Robert McNamara, the CIA, and, to some extent, the intelligence staff of Military Assistance Command Vietnam.[117] Sometime between 1959 and 1961, the CIA started Project Tiger, a program of dropping South Vietnamese agents into North Vietnam to gather intelligence. These were failures; the Deputy Chief for Project Tiger, Captain Do Van Tien, admitted that he was an agent for Hanoi.[118] Johnson In the face of the failure of Project Tiger, the Pentagon wanted CIA paramilitary forces to participate in their Op Plan 64A, this resulted in the CIA's foreign paramilitaries being put under the command of the DOD, a move seen as a slippery slope inside the CIA, a slide from covert action towards militarization.[119] The antiwar movement rapidly expanded across the United States during the Johnson presidency. Johnson wanted CIA Director Richard Helms to substantiate Johnson's hunch that Moscow and Beijing were financing and influencing the American antiwar movement. Thus, in the fall of 1967, the CIA launched a domestic surveillance program code-named Chaos that would linger for a total of seven years. Police departments across the country cooperated in tandem with the agency, amassing a "computer index of 300,000 names of American people and organizations, and extensive files on 7,200 citizens." Helms hatched a "Special Operations Group" in which "[eleven] CIA officers grew long hair, learned the jargon of the New Left, and went off to infiltrate peace groups in the United States and Europe."[120] A CIA analyst's assessment of Vietnam was that the US was "becoming progressively divorced from reality... [and] proceeding with far more courage than wisdom".[121] Nixon See also: History of the Central Intelligence Agency § Nixon In 1971, the NSA and CIA were engaged in domestic spying. The DOD was eavesdropping on Kissinger. The White House and Camp David were wired for sound. Nixon and Kissinger were eavesdropping on their aides, as well as reporters. Famously, Nixon's Plumbers had in their number many former CIA agents, including Howard Hunt, Jim McCord, and Eugenio Martinez. On July 7, 1971, John Ehrlichman, Nixon's domestic policy chief, told DCI Cushman, Nixon's hatchet-man in the CIA, to let Cushman "know that [Hunt] was, in fact, doing some things for the President... you should consider he has pretty much carte blanche"[122] Importantly, this included a camera, disguises, a voice-altering device, and ID papers furnished by the CIA, as well as the CIA's participation developing film from the burglary Hunt staged on the office of Pentagon Papers leaker Daniel Ellsberg's psychologist.[citation needed] On June 17, Nixon's Plumbers were caught burglarizing the DNC offices in the Watergate. On June 23, DCI Helms was ordered by the White House to wave the FBI off using national security as a pretext. The new DCI, Walters, another Nixon hack, called the acting director of the FBI and told him to drop the investigation as ordered.[123] On June 26, Nixon's counsel John Dean ordered DCI Walters to pay the plumbers untraceable hush money. The CIA was the only part of the government that had the power to make off the book payments, but it could only be done on the orders of the CI, or, if he was out of the country, the DCI. The Acting Director of the FBI started breaking ranks. He demanded the CIA produce a signed document attesting to the national security threat of the investigation. Jim McCord's lawyer contacted the CIA informing them that McCord had been offered a Presidential pardon if he fingered the CIA, testifying that the break-in had been an operation of the CIA. Nixon had long been frustrated by what he saw as a liberal infection inside the CIA and had been trying for years to tear the CIA out by its roots. McCord wrote "If [DCI] Helms goes (takes the fall) and the Watergate operation is laid at the CIA's feet, where it does not belong, every tree in the forest will fall. It will be a scorched desert."[124] On November 13, after Nixon's landslide re-election, Nixon told Kissinger "[I intend] to ruin the Foreign Service. I mean ruin it – the old Foreign Service – and to build a new one." He had similar designs for the CIA and intended to replace Helms with James Schlesinger.[124] Nixon had told Helms that he was on the way out, and promised that Helms could stay on until his 60th birthday, the mandatory retirement age. On February 2, Nixon broke that promise, carrying through with his intention to "remove the deadwood" from the CIA. "Get rid of the clowns" was his order to the incoming CI. Kissinger had been running the CIA since the beginning of Nixon's presidency, but Nixon impressed on Schlesinger that he must appear to Congress to be in charge, averting their suspicion of Kissinger's involvement.[125] Nixon also hoped that Schlesinger could push through broader changes in the intelligence community that he had been working towards for years, the creation of a Director of National Intelligence, and spinning off the covert action part of the CIA into a separate organ. Before Helms would leave office, he would destroy every tape he had secretly made of meetings in his office, and many of the papers on Project MKUltra. In Schlesinger's 17-week tenure, in his assertion to President Nixon that it was "imperative to cut back on 'the prominence of CIA operations' around the world," the director fired more than 1,500 employees.[126] As Watergate threw the spotlight on the CIA, Schlesinger, who had been kept in the dark about the CIA's involvement, decided he needed to know what skeletons were in the closet. He issued a memo to every CIA employee directing them to disclose to him any CIA activity they knew of past or present that could fall outside the scope of the CIA's charter.[citation needed] Operation Condor participants. Green: active members. Blue: collaborator (United States). This became the Family Jewels. It included information linking the CIA to the assassination of foreign leaders, the illegal surveillance of some 7,000 U.S. citizens involved in the antiwar movement (Operation CHAOS), the CIA had also experimented on U.S. and Canadian citizens without their knowledge, secretly giving them LSD (among other things) and observing the results.[127] This prompted Congress to create the Church Committee in the Senate, and the Pike Committee in the House. President Gerald Ford created the Rockefeller Commission,[127] and issued an executive order prohibiting the assassination of foreign leaders. DCI Colby leaked the papers to the press, later he stated that he believed that providing Congress with this information was the correct thing to do, and ultimately in the CIA's interests.[128] Congressional Investigations Acting Attorney General Laurence Silberman learned of the existence of the Family Jewels and issued a subpoena for them, prompting eight congressional investigations on the domestic spying activities of the CIA. Bill Colby's short tenure as DCI would end with the Halloween Massacre. His replacement was George H.W. Bush. At the time, the DOD had control of 80% of the intelligence budget.[129] Communication and coordination between the CIA and the DOD would suffer greatly under Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld. The CIA's budget for hiring clandestine officers had been squeezed out by the paramilitary operations in south-east Asia, and the government's poor popularity further strained hiring. This left the agency bloated with middle management, and anemic in younger officers. With employee training taking five years, the agency's only hope would be on the trickle of new officers coming to fruition years in the future. The CIA would see another setback as communists would take Angola. William J. Casey, a member of Ford's Intelligence Advisory Board, obtained Bush's approval to allow a team from outside the CIA to produce Soviet military estimates as a "Team B." The "B" team was composed of hawks. Their estimates were the highest that could be justified, and they painted a picture of a growing Soviet military when the Soviet military was indeed shrinking. Many of their reports found their way to the press. As a result of the investigations, congressional oversight of the CIA eventually evolved into a select intelligence committee in the House, and Senate supervising covert actions authorized by the President.[citation needed] Chad Main article: CIA activities in Chad Chad's neighbor Libya was a major source of weaponry to communist rebel forces. The CIA seized the opportunity to arm and finance Chad's Prime Minister, Hissène Habré, after he created a breakaway government in Western Sudan,[130] even giving him Stinger missiles.[131] Afghanistan See also: CIA activities in Afghanistan and Operation Cyclone Further information: Allegations of CIA assistance to Osama bin Laden Critics assert that funding the Afghan mujahideen (Operation Cyclone) played a role in causing the September 11 attacks. In Afghanistan, the CIA funneled $40 billion worth of weapons,[132] which included over two thousand FIM-92 Stinger surface-to-air missiles,[133] to Pakistani Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), which funneled them to almost 100,000 Afghan resistance fighters, notably the Mujahideen, and foreign "Afghan Arabs" from forty Muslim countries.[134][135] Iran/Contra See also: History of the Central Intelligence Agency § Iran/Contra Under President Jimmy Carter, the CIA was conducting covertly funded pro-American opposition against the Sandinista. In March 1981, Reagan told Congress that the CIA would protect El Salvador by preventing the shipment of Nicaraguan arms into the country to arm Communist rebels. This was a ruse. The CIA was arming and training Nicaraguans Contras in Honduras in hopes that they could depose the Sandinistas in Nicaragua.[136] Through the intelligence branch of the CIA supported William J. Casey's tenure as DCI little of what he said in the National Security Planning Group, or to President Reagan, so Casey formed the Central American Task Force, staffed with yes men from Covert Action.[136] On December 21, 1982, Congress passed a law restricting the CIA to its stated mission, restricting the flow of arms from Nicaragua to El Salvador, prohibiting the use of funds to oust the Sandinistas. Reagan testified before Congress, assuring them that the CIA was not trying to topple the Nicaraguan government.[citation needed] Lebanon The CIA's prime source in Lebanon was Bashir Gemayel, a member of the Christian Maronite sect. The uprising against the Maronite minority blinded the CIA. Israel invaded Lebanon, and, along with the CIA, propped up Gemayel. This got Gemayel's assurance that Americans would be protected in Lebanon. Thirteen days later he was assassinated. Imad Mughniyah, a Hezbollah assassin would target Americans in retaliation for the Israeli invasion, the Sabra and Shatila massacre, and the US Marines of the Multi-National Force for their role in opposing the PLO in Lebanon. On April 18, 1983, a 2,000lb car bomb exploded in the lobby of the American embassy in Beirut, killing 63 people including 17 Americans, and 7 CIA officers, including Robert Ames, one of the CIA's best Middle East experts. America's fortunes in Lebanon would only suffer more as America's poorly-directed retaliation for the bombing was interpreted by many as support for the Christian Maronite minority. On October 23, 1983, two bombs (1983 Beirut Bombing) were set off in Beirut, including a 10-ton bomb at a US military barracks that killed 242 people. Both attacks are believed to have been planned by Iran as a way of Mughniyah.[citation needed] The Embassy bombing had taken the life of the CIA's Beirut Station Chief, Ken Haas. Bill Buckley was sent in to replace him. Eighteen days after the US Marines left Lebanon, Buckley was kidnapped. On March 7, 1984, Jeremy Levin, CNN Bureau Chief in Beirut was kidnapped. Twelve more Americans would be captured in Beirut during the Reagan Administration. Manucher Ghorbanifar, a former Savak agent was an information seller, and the subject of a rare CIA burn notice for his track record of misinformation. He reached out to the agency offering a back channel to Iran, suggesting a trade of missiles that would be lucrative to the intermediaries.[137] Pakistan Main article: CIA activities in Pakistan CIA activities ostensibly carried out by the CIA within Pakistan. It has been alleged by such authors as Ahmed Rashid that the CIA and ISI have been waging a clandestine war. The Afghan Taliban – with whom the United States is officially in conflict – is headquartered in Pakistan's Federally Administered Tribal Areas and according to some reports is largely funded by the ISI. The Pakistani government denies this. India–Pakistan geopolitical tensions On May 11, 1998, CIA Director George Tenet and his agency were taken aback by India's second nuclear test. The bellicose gesture ruffled the feathers of its arch nuclear-capable adversary, Pakistan, and, furthermore, "remade the balance of power in the world." The nuclear test was New Delhi's calculated response to Pakistan previously testing new missiles in its expanding arsenal. This seismic series of events subsequently revealed the CIA's "failure of espionage, a failure to read photographs, a failure to comprehend reports, a failure to think, and a failure to see."[138] Poland 1980–1989 See also: Poland–United States relations Unlike the Carter Administration, the Reagan Administration supported the Solidarity movement in Poland, and – based on CIA intelligence – waged a public relations campaign to deter what the Carter administration felt was "an imminent move by large Soviet military forces into Poland." Colonel Ryszard Kukliński, a senior officer on the Polish General Staff, was secretly sending reports to the CIA.[139] The CIA transferred around $2 million yearly in cash to Solidarity, which suggests that $10 million total is a reasonable estimate for the five-year total. There were no direct links between the CIA and Solidarnosc, and all money was channeled through third parties.[140] CIA officers were barred from meeting Solidarity leaders, and the CIA's contacts with Solidarnosc activists were weaker than those of the AFL-CIO, which raised 300 thousand dollars from its members, which were used to provide material and cash directly to Solidarity, with no control of Solidarity's use of it. The U.S. Congress authorized the National Endowment for Democracy to promote democracy, and the NED allocated $10 million to Solidarity.[141] When the Polish government launched a crackdown of its own in December 1981, however, Solidarity was not alerted. Potential explanations for this vary; some believe that the CIA was caught off guard, while others suggest that American policy-makers viewed an internal crackdown as preferable to an "inevitable Soviet intervention."[142] CIA support for Solidarity included money, equipment and training, which was coordinated by Special Operations CIA division.[143] Henry Hyde, U.S. House intelligence committee member, stated that USA provided "supplies and technical assistance in terms of clandestine newspapers, broadcasting, propaganda, money, organizational help and advice".[144] Michael Reisman from Yale Law School named operations in Poland as one of the covert actions of CIA during Cold War.[145] Initial funds for covert actions by CIA were $2 million, but soon after authorization was increased and by 1985 CIA successfully infiltrated Poland[146] Rainer Thiel in Nested Games of External Democracy Promotion: The United States and the Polish Liberalization 1980–1989 mentions how covert operations by CIA and spy games among others allowed USA to proceed with successful regime change.[147] Operation Desert Storm Main article: Gulf War During the Iran-Iraq war, the CIA had backed both sides. The CIA had maintained a network of spies in Iran, but in 1989 a CIA mistake compromised every agent they had in there, and the CIA had no agents in Iraq. In the weeks before the Invasion of Kuwait, the CIA downplayed the military buildup. During the war, CIA estimates of Iraqi abilities and intentions flip-flopped and were rarely accurate. In one particular case, the DOD had asked the CIA to identify military targets to bomb. One target the CIA identified was an underground shelter. The CIA didn't know that it was a civilian bomb shelter. In a rare instance, the CIA correctly determined that the coalition forces efforts were coming up short in their efforts to destroy SCUD missiles. Congress took away the CIA's role in interpreting spy-satellite photos, putting the CIA's satellite intelligence operations under the auspices of the military. The CIA created its office of military affairs, which operated as "second-echelon support for the Pentagon... answering... questions from military men [like] 'how wide is this road?'"[148] Fall of the USSR See also: History of the Central Intelligence Agency § Fall of the USSR Gorbachev's announcement of the unilateral reduction of 500,000 Soviet troops took the CIA by surprise. Moreover, Doug MacEachin, the CIA's Chief of Soviet analysis said that even if the CIA had told the President, the NSC, and Congress about the cuts beforehand, it would have been ignored. "We never would have been able to publish it."[149] All the CIA numbers on the USSR's economy were wrong. Too often the CIA relied on inexperienced people supposedly deemed experts. Bob Gates had preceded Doug MacEachin as Chief of Soviet analysis, and he had never visited Russia. Few officers, even those stationed in the country spoke the language of the people on whom they spied. And the CIA could not send agents to respond to developing situations. The CIA analysis of Russia during the entire cold war was either driven by ideology, or by politics. William J. Crowe, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, noted that the CIA "talked about the Soviet Union as if they weren't reading the newspapers, much less developed clandestine intelligence."[150] President Clinton On January 25, 1993, Mir Qazi opened fire at the CIA headquarters in Langley, Virginia, killing two agents and wounding three others. On February 26, Al-Qaeda terrorists led by Ramzi Yousef bombed the parking garage below the North Tower of the World Trade Center in New York City, killing six people and injuring 1,402 others. During the Bosnian War, the CIA ignored signs within and without of the Srebrenica massacre. On July 13, 1995, when the press report about the massacre came out, the CIA received pictures from spy satellite of prisoners guarded by men with guns in Srebrenica.[151] The CIA had no agents on the ground to verify the report. Two weeks after news reports of the slaughter, the CIA sent a U-2 to photograph it. A week later the CIA completed its report on the matter. The final report came to the Oval Office on August 4, 1995. In short, it took three weeks for the agency to confirm that one of the largest mass murders in Europe since the Second World War had occurred.[151] Another CIA mistakes in Balkan during Clinton presidency occurred in NATO bombing of Serbia. To force Slobodan Milošević to withdraw his troops from Kosovo. The CIA had been invited to provide military targets for bombings. The agency's analysts used tourist maps to fix the location.[152] However, the agency incorrectly provided the coordinates of the Chinese Embassy as a target resulting in its bombing. The CIA had misread the target as Slobodan Milosevic 's military depot.[153] In France, the CIA had orders for economic intelligence; a female CIA agent revealed her connections to the CIA to the French. Dick Holm, Paris Station Chief, was expelled.[citation needed] In Guatemala, the CIA produced the Murphy Memo, based on audio recordings made by bugs planted by Guatemalan intelligence in the bedroom of Ambassador Marilyn McAfee. In the recording, Ambassador McAfee verbally entreated "Murphy." The CIA circulated a memo in the highest Washington circles accusing Ambassador McAfee of having an extramarital lesbian affair with her secretary, Carol Murphy. There was no affair. Ambassador McAfee was calling to Murphy, her poodle.[154] Harold James Nicholson would burn several serving officers and three years of trainees before he was caught spying for Russia. In 1997 the House would pen another report, which said that CIA officers know little about the language or politics of the people they spy on; the conclusion was that the CIA lacked the "depth, breadth, and expertise to monitor political, military, and economic developments worldwide."[155] Russ Travers said in the CIA in-house journal that in five years "intelligence failure is inevitable".[156] In 1997 the CIA's new director George Tenet would promise a new working agency by 2002. The CIA's surprise at India's detonation of an atom bomb was a failure at almost every level. After the 1998 embassy bombings by Al Qaeda, the CIA offered two targets to be hit in retaliation. One of them was the Al-Shifa pharmaceutical factory, where traces of chemical weapon precursors had been detected. In the aftermath, it was concluded that "the decision to target al Shifa continues a tradition of operating on inadequate intelligence about Sudan." It triggered the CIA to make "substantial and sweeping changes" to prevent "a catastrophic systemic intelligence failure."[157] Between 1991 and 1998 the CIA lost 3,000 employees.[citation needed] Aldrich Ames See also: Aldrich Ames Between 1985 and 1986, the CIA lost every spy it had in Eastern Europe. The details of the investigation into the cause were obscured from the new Director, and the investigation had little success and has been widely criticized. On February 21, 1994, FBI agents pulled Aldrich Ames out of his Jaguar.[158] In the investigation that ensued, the CIA discovered that many of the sources for its most important analyses of the USSR were based on Soviet disinformation fed to the CIA by controlled agents. On top of that, it was discovered that, in some cases, the CIA suspected at the time that the sources were compromised, but the information was sent up the chain as genuine.[159][160] Osama bin Laden Agency files show that it is believed Osama bin Laden was funding the Afghan rebels against the USSR in the 1980s.[161] In 1991, bin Laden returned to his native Saudi Arabia protesting the presence of troops, and Operation Desert Storm. He was expelled from the country. In 1996, the CIA created a team to hunt bin Laden. They were trading information with the Sudanese until, on the word of a source that would later be found to be a fabricator, the CIA closed its Sudan station later that year. In 1998, bin Laden would declare war on America, and, on August 7, strike in Tanzania and Nairobi. On October 12, 2000, Al Qaeda bombed the USS Cole. In the first days of George W. Bush's presidency, Al Qaeda threats were ubiquitous in daily presidential CIA briefings, but it may have become a case of crying wolf. The agency's predictions were dire but carried little weight, and the focus of the president and his defense staff were elsewhere. The CIA arranged the arrests of suspected Al Qaeda members through cooperation with foreign agencies, but the CIA could not definitively say what effect these arrests have had, and it could not gain hard intelligence from those captured. The President had asked the CIA if Al Qaeda could plan attacks in the US. On August 6, Bush received a daily briefing with the headline, not based on current, solid intelligence, "Al Qaeda determined to strike inside the US." The US had been hunting bin Laden since 1996 and had had several opportunities, but neither Clinton, nor Bush had wanted to risk taking an active role in a murky assassination plot, and the perfect opportunity had never materialized for a DCI that would have given him the reassurances he needed to take the plunge. That day, Richard A. Clarke sent National Security Advisor Condoleezza Rice warning of the risks, and decrying the inaction of the CIA.[162] Al-Qaeda and the Global War on Terrorism Further information: CIA transnational anti-terrorism activities, Human rights violations by the CIA, and Senate Intelligence Committee report on CIA torture The CIA prepared a series of leaflets announcing bounties for those who turned in or denounced individuals suspected of association with the Taliban or al Qaeda. The CIA had long been dealing with terrorism originating from abroad, and in 1986 had set up a Counterterrorist Center to deal specifically with the problem. At first, confronted with secular terrorism, the agency found Islamist terrorism looming increasingly large on its scope.[citation needed] In January 1996, the CIA created an experimental "virtual station," the Bin Laden Issue Station, under the Counterterrorist Center, to track bin Laden's developing activities. Al-Fadl, who defected to the CIA in spring 1996, began to provide the Station with a new image of the Al Qaeda leader: he was not only a terrorist financier but a terrorist organizer as well. FBI Special Agent Dan Coleman (who together with his partner Jack Cloonan had been "seconded" to the bin Laden Station) called him Qaeda's "Rosetta Stone".[163] In 1999, CIA chief George Tenet launched a plan to deal with al-Qaeda. The Counterterrorist Center, its new chief, Cofer Black, and the center's bin Laden unit were the plan's developers and executors. Once it was prepared, Tenet assigned CIA intelligence chief Charles E. Allen to set up a "Qaeda cell" to oversee its tactical execution.[164] In 2000, the CIA and USAF jointly ran a series of flights over Afghanistan with a small remote-controlled reconnaissance drone, the Predator; they obtained probable photos of bin Laden. Cofer Black and others became advocates of arming the Predator with missiles to try to assassinate bin Laden and other al-Qaeda leaders. After the Cabinet-level Principals Committee meeting on terrorism of September 4, 2001, the CIA resumed reconnaissance flights, the drones now being weapons-capable.[citation needed] September 11 attacks and its aftermath US Special Forces help Northern Alliance troops away from a CIA-operated MI-17 Hip helicopter at Bagram Airbase, 2002 On September 11, 2001, 19 Al-Qaeda members hijacked four passenger jets within the Northeastern United States in a series of coordinated terrorist attacks. Two planes crashed into the Twin Towers of the World Trade Center in New York City, the third into the Pentagon in Arlington County, Virginia, and the fourth inadvertently into a field near Shanksville, Pennsylvania. The attacks cost the lives of 2,996 people (including the 19 hijackers), caused the destruction of the Twin Towers, and damaged the western side of the Pentagon. Soon after 9/11, The New York Times released a story stating that the CIA's New York field office was destroyed in the wake of the attacks. According to unnamed CIA sources, while first responders, military personnel and volunteers were conducting rescue efforts at the World Trade Center site, a special CIA team was searching the rubble for both digital and paper copies of classified documents. This was done according to well-rehearsed document recovery procedures put in place after the Iranian takeover of the United States Embassy in Tehran in 1979. While it was not confirmed whether the agency was able to retrieve the classified information, it is known that all agents present that day fled the building safely.[citation needed] While the CIA insists that those who conducted the attacks on 9/11 were not aware that the agency was operating at 7 World Trade Center under the guise of another (unidentified) federal agency, this center was the headquarters for many notable criminal terrorism investigations. Though the New York field offices' main responsibilities were to monitor and recruit foreign officials stationed at the United Nations, the field office also handled the investigations of the August 1998 bombings of United States Embassies in East Africa and the October 2000 bombing of the USS Cole.[165] Despite the fact that the 9/11 attacks may have damaged the CIA's New York branch, and they had to loan office space from the US Mission to the United Nations and other federal agencies, there was an upside for the CIA.[165] In the months immediately following 9/11, there was a huge increase in the number of applications for CIA positions. According to CIA representatives that spoke with The New York Times, pre-9/11 the agency received approximately 500 to 600 applications a week, in the months following 9/11 the agency received that number daily.[166] The intelligence community as a whole, and especially the CIA, were involved in presidential planning immediately after the 9/11 attacks. In his address to the nation at 8:30pm on September 11, 2001, George W. Bush mentioned the intelligence community: "The search is underway for those who are behind these evil acts, I've directed the full resource of our intelligence and law enforcement communities to find those responsible and bring them to justice."[167] The involvement of the CIA in the newly coined "War on Terror" was further increased on September 15, 2001. During a meeting at Camp David George W. Bush agreed to adopt a plan proposed by CIA director George Tenet. This plan consisted of conducting a covert war in which CIA paramilitary officers would cooperate with anti-Taliban guerillas inside Afghanistan. They would later be joined by small special operations forces teams which would call in precision airstrikes on Taliban and Al Qaeda fighters. This plan was codified on September 16, 2001, with Bush's signature of an official Memorandum of Notification that allowed the plan to proceed.[168] Former CIA director Robert Gates meets with Russian Minister of Defense and ex-KGB officer Sergei Ivanov, 2007 On November 25–27, 2001, Taliban prisoners revolted at the Qala Jangi prison west of Mazar-e-Sharif. Though several days of struggle occurred between the Taliban prisoners and the Northern Alliance members present, the prisoners gained the upper hand and obtained North Alliance weapons. At some point during this period Johnny "Mike" Spann, a CIA officer sent to question the prisoners, was beaten to death. He became the first American to die in combat in the war in Afghanistan.[168] After 9/11, the CIA came under criticism for not having done enough to prevent the attacks. Tenet rejected the criticism, citing the agency's planning efforts especially over the preceding two years. He also considered that the CIA's efforts had put the agency in a position to respond rapidly and effectively to the attacks, both in the "Afghan sanctuary" and in "ninety-two countries around the world".[169][170] The new strategy was called the "Worldwide Attack Matrix". Anwar al-Awlaki, a Yemeni-American U.S. citizen and al-Qaeda member, was killed on September 30, 2011, by an airstrike conducted by the Joint Special Operations Command. After several days of surveillance of Awlaki by the Central Intelligence Agency, armed drones took off from a new, secret American base in the Arabian Peninsula, crossed into northern Yemen, and fired several Hellfire missiles at al-Awlaki's vehicle. Samir Khan, a Pakistani-American al-Qaeda member and editor of the jihadist Inspire magazine, also reportedly died in the attack. The combined CIA/JSOC drone strike was the first in Yemen since 2002 – there have been others by the military's Special Operations forces – and was part of an effort by the spy agency to duplicate in Yemen the covert war which has been running in Afghanistan and Pakistan.[171][172] Use of vaccination program in hunt for Osama bin Laden The agency attracted widespread criticism after it used a local doctor in Pakistan to set up a hepatitis B vaccination program in Abbottabad in 2011 to obtain DNA samples from the occupants of a compound where it was suspected bin Laden was living, hoping to obtain samples from bin Laden or his children in order to confirm his presence. It is unknown whether any useful DNA was acquired from the program, but it was deemed not successful. The doctor was later arrested and sentenced to a lengthy prison term on allegedly unrelated charges.[173] Médecins Sans Frontières criticised the CIA for endangering and undermining trust in medical workers[174] and The New York Times reported that the CIA's action had increased resistance to vaccination programs in Pakistan.[175] Failures in intelligence analysis A major criticism is a failure to forestall the September 11 attacks. The 9/11 Commission Report identified failures in the IC as a whole. One problem, for example, was the FBI failing to "connect the dots" by sharing information among its decentralized field offices. The report concluded that former DCI George Tenet failed to adequately prepare the agency to deal with the danger posed by al-Qaeda prior to the attacks of September 11, 2001.[176] The report was finished in June 2005 and was partially released to the public in an agreement with Congress, over the objections of current DCI General Michael Hayden. Hayden said its publication would "consume time and attention revisiting ground that is already well plowed."[177] Tenet disagreed with the report's conclusions, citing his planning efforts vis-à-vis al-Qaeda, particularly from 1999.[178] Assistant Secretary of State for Intelligence, Carl W. Ford Jr. remarked, ""As long as we rate intelligence more for its volume than its quality, we will continue to turn out the $40 billion pile of crap we have become famous for." He further stated, "[The CIA is] broken. It's so broken that nobody wants to believe it."[179] Abuses of CIA authority, 1970s–1990s Conditions worsened in the mid-1970s, around the time of Watergate. A dominant feature of political life during that period were the attempts of Congress to assert oversight of the U.S. Presidency and the executive branch of the U.S. government. Revelations about past CIA activities, such as assassinations and attempted assassinations of foreign leaders (most notably Fidel Castro and Rafael Trujillo) and illegal domestic spying on U.S. citizens, provided the opportunities to increase Congressional oversight of U.S. intelligence operations.[127] CIA involvement in Contra cocaine trafficking in Nicaragua[180][181] and complicity in the actions of the death squads in El Salvador and Honduras also came to light.[182][183] Nixon Oval Office meeting with H.R. Haldeman "Smoking Gun" Conversation June 23, 1972. (Full transcript). Hastening the CIA's fall from grace was the burglary of the Watergate headquarters of the Democratic Party by former CIA officers, and President Richard Nixon's subsequent attempt to use the CIA to impede the FBI's investigation of the burglary. In the famous "smoking gun" recording that led to President Nixon's resignation, Nixon ordered his chief of staff, H. R. Haldeman, to tell the CIA that further investigation of Watergate would "open the whole can of worms about the Bay of Pigs".[184][185] In this way Nixon and Haldemann ensured that the CIA's No. 1 and No. 2 ranking officials, Richard Helms and Vernon Walters, communicated to FBI Director L. Patrick Gray that the FBI should not follow the money trail from the burglars to the Committee to Re-elect the President, as it would uncover CIA informants in Mexico. The FBI initially agreed to this due to a long-standing agreement between the FBI and CIA not to uncover each other's sources of information, though within a couple of weeks the FBI demanded this request in writing, and when no such formal request came, the FBI resumed its investigation into the money trail. Nonetheless, when the smoking gun tapes were made public, damage to the public's perception of CIA's top officials, and thus to the CIA as a whole, could not be avoided.[186] President Gerald Ford meets with CIA Director-designate George H. W. Bush, December 17, 1975 Repercussions from the Iran–Contra affair arms smuggling scandal included the creation of the Intelligence Authorization Act in 1991. It defined covert operations as secret missions in geopolitical areas where the U.S. is neither openly nor engaged. This also required an authorizing chain of command, including an official, presidential finding report and the informing of the House and Senate Intelligence Committees, which, in emergencies, requires only "timely notification." Iraq War Main article: CIA activities in Iraq Further information: Plame affair Seventy-two days after the 9/11 attacks, President Bush told Secretary of Defense Rumsfeld to update the US plan for an invasion of Iraq, but not to tell anyone. Rumsfeld asked Bush if he could bring DCI Tenet into the loop, to which Bush agreed.[187] The CIA had put out feelers to Iraq in the form of eight of their best officers in Kurdish territory in Northern Iraq hit a goldmine, unprecedented in the famously closed Hussein government. By December 2002, the CIA had close to a dozen functional networks in Iraq[187]:242 and would penetrate Iraq's SSO, tap the encrypted communications of the Deputy Prime Minister, and recruit the bodyguard of Hussein's son[which?] as an agent. As time passed, the CIA would become more and more frantic about the possibility of their networks being compromised. To the CIA, the invasion had to occur before the end of February 2003 if their sources inside Hussein's government were to survive. The rollup would happen as predicted, 37 CIA sources recognized by their Thuraya satellite telephones provided for them by the CIA.[187]:337 Former CIA deputy director Michael Morell (left) apologized to Colin Powell for the CIA's erroneous assessments of Iraq's WMD programs.[188] The case Colin Powell presented before the United Nations (purportedly proving an Iraqi WMD program) was inaccurate. DDCI John E. McLaughlin was part of a long discussion in the CIA about equivocation. McLaughlin, who would make, among others, the "slam dunk" presentation to the President, "felt that they had to dare to be wrong to be clearer in their judgments".[187]:197 The Al Qaeda connection, for instance, was from a single source, extracted through torture, and was later denied. Curveball was a known liar, and the sole source for the mobile chemical weapons factories.[189] A postmortem of the intelligence failures in the lead up to Iraq led by former DDCI Richard Kerr would conclude that the CIA had been a casualty of the Cold War, wiped out in a way "analogous to the effect of the meteor strikes on the dinosaurs."[190] The Senate Intelligence Committee report on CIA torture that details the use of torture during CIA detention and interrogation. The opening days of the invasion of Iraq would see successes and defeats for the CIA. With its Iraq networks compromised, and its strategic and tactical information shallow, and often wrong, the intelligence side of the invasion itself would be a black eye for the agency. The CIA would see some success with its "Scorpion" paramilitary teams composed of CIA Special Activities Division agents, along with friendly Iraqi partisans. CIA SAD officers would also help the US 10th Special Forces.[187][191][192] The occupation of Iraq would be a low point in the history of the CIA. At the largest CIA station in the world, agents would rotate through 1–3-month tours. In Iraq, almost 500 transient agents would be trapped inside the Green Zone while Iraq station chiefs would rotate with only a little less frequency.[193] 2004, DNI takes over CIA top-level functions The Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 created the office of the Director of National Intelligence (DNI), who took over some of the government and intelligence community (IC)-wide functions that had previously been the CIA's. The DNI manages the United States Intelligence Community and in so doing it manages the intelligence cycle. Among the functions that moved to the DNI were the preparation of estimates reflecting the consolidated opinion of the 16 IC agencies, and preparation of briefings for the president. On July 30, 2008, President Bush issued Executive Order 13470[194] amending Executive Order 12333 to strengthen the role of the DNI.[195] Previously, the Director of Central Intelligence (DCI) oversaw the Intelligence Community, serving as the president's principal intelligence advisor, additionally serving as head of the CIA. The DCI's title now is "Director of the Central Intelligence Agency" (D/CIA), serving as head of the CIA. Currently, the CIA reports to the Director of National Intelligence. Before the establishment of the DNI, the CIA reported to the President, with informational briefings to congressional committees. The National Security Advisor is a permanent member of the National Security Council, responsible for briefing the President with pertinent information collected by all U.S. intelligence agencies, including the National Security Agency, the Drug Enforcement Administration, etc. All 16 Intelligence Community agencies are under the authority of the Director of National Intelligence. Operation Neptune Spear See also: Death of Osama bin Laden On May 1, 2011, President Barack Obama announced that Osama bin Laden was killed earlier that day by "a small team of Americans" operating in Abbottabad, Pakistan, during a CIA operation.[196][197] The raid was executed from a CIA forward base in Afghanistan by elements of the U.S. Navy's Naval Special Warfare Development Group and CIA paramilitary operatives.[198] It resulted in the acquisition of extensive intelligence on the future attack plans of al-Qaeda.[199][200][201] The operation was a result of years of intelligence work that included the CIA's capture and interrogation of Khalid Sheik Mohammad (KSM), which led to the identity of a courier of bin Laden's,[202][203][204] the tracking of the courier to the compound by Special Activities Division paramilitary operatives and the establishing of a CIA safe house to provide critical tactical intelligence for the operation.[205][206][207] Syrian Civil War Main article: CIA activities in Syria Play media President Obama and CIA Director Brennan at the GCC-U.S. Summit in Riyadh in April 2016. Saudi Arabia was involved in the CIA-led Timber Sycamore covert operation. Under the aegis of operation Timber Sycamore and other clandestine activities, CIA operatives and U.S. special operations troops have trained and armed nearly 10,000 rebel fighters at a cost of $1 billion a year.[208] The CIA has been sending weapons to anti-government rebels in Syria since at least 2012.[209] These weapons have been reportedly falling into hands of extremists, such as al-Nusra Front and ISIL.[210][211][212] Around February 2017, the CIA was instructed to halt military aid to Syrian rebels (Free Syrian Army or FSA), which also included training, ammunition, guided missiles, and salaries. Sources state that the hold on aid was not related to the transitions from Obama's administration to Trump's, but rather due to issues faced by the FSA. Based on responses by rebel officials, they believe that the aid freeze is related to concerns that weapons and funds will fall into the hands of ISIL. Based on information obtained by Reuters, five FSA groups have confirmed that they received funding and military support from a source called "MOM operations room."[clarification needed] Several countries besides the U.S., including Turkey, Qatar, and Saudi Arabia, had also contributed to the funding of the FSA.[citation needed] On April 6, 2017, Al-Jazeera reported that funding to the FSA was partially restored. Based on the information provided by two FSA sources, the new military operation room will receive its funds from the coalition "Friends of Syria." The coalition consists of members from the U.S, Turkey, Western Europe, and Gulf states, which previously supported the military operation known as MOM.[213] It was reported in July 2017 that President Donald Trump had ordered a "phasing out" of the CIA's support for anti-Assad rebels.[214] Reorganization On March 6, 2015, the office of the D/CIA issued an unclassified edition of a statement by the Director, titled "Our Agency's Blueprint for the Future," as a press release for public consumption. The press release announced sweeping plans for the reorganization and reform of the CIA, which the Director believes will bring the CIA more in line with the agency doctrine called the 'Strategic Direction.' Among the key changes disclosed include the establishment of a new directorate, the Directorate of Digital Innovation, which is responsible for designing and crafting the digital technology to be used by the agency, to keep the CIA always ahead of its enemies. The Directorate of Digital Innovation will also train CIA staff in the use of this technology, to prepare the CIA for the future, and it will also use the technological revolution to deal with cyber-terrorism and other perceived threats. The new directorate will be the chief cyber-espionage arm of the agency going forward.[215] Other changes which were announced include the formation of a Talent Development Center of Excellence, the enhancement and expansion of the CIA University and the creation of the office of the Chancellor to head the CIA University to consolidate and unify recruitment and training efforts. The office of the Executive Director will be empowered and expanded, and the secretarial offices serving the Executive Director will be streamlined. The restructuring of the entire Agency is to be revamped according to a new model whereby governance is modeled after the structure and hierarchy of corporations, said to increase the efficiency of workflow and to enable the Executive Director to manage day-to-day activity significantly. As well, another stated intention was to establish 'Mission Centers', each one to deal with a specific geographic region of the world, which will bring the full collaboration and joint efforts of the five Directorates together under one roof. While the Directorate heads will still retain ultimate authority over their respective Directorate, the Mission Centers will be led by an Assistant Director who will work with the capabilities and talents of all five Directorates on mission-specific goals for the parts of the world which they are given responsibility for.[215] The unclassified version of the document ends with the announcement that the National Clandestine Service (NCS) will be reverting to its original Directorate name, the Directorate of Operations. The Directorate of Intelligence is also being renamed. It will now be the Directorate of Analysis.[215] Drones A new policy introduced by President Barack Obama removed the authority of the CIA to launch drone attacks and allowed these attacks only under Department of Defense command. This change was reversed by President Donald Trump, who authorized CIA drone strikes on suspected terrorists.[216] Encryption devices sold through front company For decades until 2018, the CIA secretly owned Crypto AG, a small Swiss company that made encryption devices, in association with West German intelligence. The company sold compromised encryption devices to over 120 countries, allowing Western intelligence to eavesdrop on communications that the users believed to be secure.[217][218] Open source intelligence Further information: Foreign Broadcast Information Service and Open Source Center Until the 2004 reorganization of the intelligence community, one of the "services of common concern" that the CIA provided was open source intelligence from the Foreign Broadcast Information Service (FBIS).[219] FBIS, which had absorbed the Joint Publication Research Service, a military organization that translated documents,[220] moved into the National Open Source Enterprise under the Director of National Intelligence. During the Reagan administration, Michael Sekora (assigned to the DIA), worked with agencies across the intelligence community, including the CIA, to develop and deploy a technology-based competitive strategy system called Project Socrates. Project Socrates was designed to utilize open source intelligence gathering almost exclusively. The technology-focused Socrates system supported such programs as the Strategic Defense Initiative in addition to private sector projects.[221][222] As part of its mandate to gather intelligence, the CIA is looking increasingly online for information, and has become a major consumer of social media. "We're looking at YouTube, which carries some unique and honest-to-goodness intelligence," said Doug Naquin, director of the DNI Open Source Center (OSC) at CIA headquarters. "We're looking at chat rooms and things that didn't exist five years ago, and trying to stay ahead."[223] CIA launched a Twitter account in June 2014.[224] Outsourcing and privatization See also: Intelligence Outsourcing Many of the duties and functions of Intelligence Community activities, not the CIA alone, are being outsourced and privatized. Mike McConnell, former Director of National Intelligence, was about to publicize an investigation report of outsourcing by U.S. intelligence agencies, as required by Congress.[225] However, this report was then classified.[226][227] Hillhouse speculates that this report includes requirements for the CIA to report:[226][228] different standards for government employees and contractors; contractors providing similar services to government workers; analysis of costs of contractors vs. employees; an assessment of the appropriateness of outsourced activities; an estimate of the number of contracts and contractors; comparison of compensation for contractors and government employees; attrition analysis of government employees; descriptions of positions to be converted back to the employee model; an evaluation of accountability mechanisms; an evaluation of procedures for "conducting oversight of contractors to ensure identification and prosecution of criminal violations, financial waste, fraud, or other abuses committed by contractors or contract personnel"; and an "identification of best practices of accountability mechanisms within service contracts." According to investigative journalist Tim Shorrock: ...what we have today with the intelligence business is something far more systemic: senior officials leaving their national security and counterterrorism jobs for positions where they essentially perform the same jobs they once held at the CIA, the NSA, and other agencies – but for double or triple the salary, and profit. It's a privatization of the highest order, in which our collective memory and experience in intelligence – our crown jewels of spying, so to speak – are owned by corporate America. There is essentially no government oversight of this private sector at the heart of our intelligence empire. And the lines between public and private have become so blurred as to be nonexistent.[229][230] Congress had required an outsourcing report by March 30, 2008.[228] The Director of National Intelligence has been granted the authority to increase the number of positions (FTEs) on elements in the Intelligence Community by up to 10% should there be a determination that activities performed by a contractor should be done by a U.S. government employee."[228] The problem is two-fold. Part of the problem, according to Author Tim Weiner, is that political appointees designated by recent presidential administrations have sometimes been under-qualified or over-zealous politically. Large scale purges have taken place in the upper echelons of the CIA, and when those talented individuals are pushed out the door they have frequently gone on to found new independent intelligence companies which can suck up CIA talent.[107] Another part of the contracting problem comes from Congressional restrictions on the number of employees within the IC. According to Hillhouse, this resulted in 70% of the de facto workforce of the CIA's National Clandestine Service being made up of contractors. "After years of contributing to the increasing reliance upon contractors, Congress is now providing a framework for the conversion of contractors into federal government employees – more or less."[228] The number of independent contractors hired by the Federal government across the intelligence community has skyrocketed. So, not only does the CIA have trouble hiring, but those hires will frequently leave their permanent employ for shorter term contract gigs which have much higher pay and allow for more career mobility.[107] As with most government agencies, building equipment often is contracted. The National Reconnaissance Office (NRO), responsible for the development and operation of airborne and spaceborne sensors, long was a joint operation of the CIA and the United States Department of Defense. The NRO had been significantly involved in the design of such sensors, but the NRO, then under DCI authority, contracted more of the design that had been their tradition, and to a contractor without extensive reconnaissance experience, Boeing. The next-generation satellite Future Imagery Architecture project "how does heaven look," which missed objectives after $4 billion in cost overruns, was the result of this contract.[231][232] Some of the cost problems associated with intelligence come from one agency, or even a group within an agency, not accepting the compartmented security practices for individual projects, requiring expensive duplication.[233] Controversies Main article: List of CIA controversies See also: Human rights violations by the CIA, Allegations of CIA drug trafficking, CIA influence on public opinion, Operation Mockingbird, Extraordinary rendition, Assassination of Orlando Letelier, Cubana de Aviación Flight 455, and Operation Condor Throughout its history, the CIA has been the subject of many controversies, both at home and abroad. In fiction Main article: CIA in fiction Fictional depictions of the CIA exist in many books, films and video games. Some fiction draws, at least in parts, on actual historical events, while other works are entirely fictional. The television series Chuck (2007), was based solely on a man who accidentally sees secret CIA encryptions and eventually becomes an asset/liability, and later on an agent in the agency. Films include Charlie Wilson's War (2007), based on the story of U.S. Congressman Charlie Wilson and CIA operative Gust Avrakotos, who supported the Afghan mujahideen, and The Good Shepherd (2006), a fictional spy film produced and directed by Robert De Niro based loosely on the development of counter-intelligence in the CIA. The fictional character Jack Ryan in Tom Clancy's books is a CIA analyst.[234] Graham Greene's The Quiet American is about a CIA agent operating in Southeast Asia.[235] Fictional depictions of the CIA are also used in video games, such as Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell, Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 and Call of Duty: Black Ops. See also United States portal Politics portal Abu Omar case Blue sky memo CIA's relationship with the United States Military Classified information in the United States Freedom of Information Act (United States) Intellipedia Kryptos National Intelligence Board Operation Peter Pan Reagan Doctrine Title 32 of the Code of Federal Regulations U.S. Army and CIA interrogation manuals United States and state-sponsored terrorism United States Department of Homeland Security United States Intelligence Community Vault 7 The World Factbook, published by the CIA Notes ^ "History of the CIA". Central Intelligence Agency. Retrieved March 28, 2014. ^ "CIA Observes 50th Anniversary of Original Headquarters Building Cornerstone Laying". Central Intelligence Agency. Retrieved September 18, 2012. ^ a b c d e f g h Gellman, Barton; Miller, Greg (August 29, 2013). "U.S. spy network's successes, failures and objectives detailed in 'black budget' summary". The Washington Post. Retrieved August 29, 2013. ^ Kopel, Dave (July 28, 1997). "CIA Budget: An Unnecessary Secret". Cato Institute. Retrieved April 15, 2007. ^ "Cloak Over the CIA Budget". The Washington Post. November 29, 1999. Retrieved July 4, 2008 – via Federation of American Scientists. ^ a b Aftergood, Steven (October 6, 2011). "Secrecy News: Reducing Overclassification Through Accountability". Federation of American Scientists. Retrieved February 3, 2012. ^ Woodward, Bob (November 18, 2001). "Secret CIA Units Playing Central Combat Role". The Washington Post. Retrieved February 26, 2012. ^ "World Leaders – Paraguay". Central Intelligence Agency. Archived from the original on May 28, 2010. Retrieved April 14, 2011. ^ Eimer, Charlotte (September 28, 2005). "Spotlight on US troops in Paraguay". BBC News Online. Retrieved April 18, 2011. ^ Phillips, Tom (October 23, 2006). "Paraguay in a spin about Bush's alleged 100,000 acre hideaway". The Guardian. London. Retrieved April 18, 2011. ^ Commission on the Roles and Capabilities of the United States Intelligence Community (March 1, 1996). "Preparing for the 21st Century: An Appraisal of U.S. Intelligence. Chapter 13 – The Cost of Intelligence". ^ Gellman, Barton; Nakashima, Ellen (September 3, 2013). "U.S. spy agencies mounted 231 offensive cyber-operations in 2011, documents show". The Washington Post. ^ "Leadership". Central Intelligence Agency. June 5, 2017. Retrieved January 6, 2018. ^ a b "Sisterhood of Spies: Women crack the code at the CIA (also see Video "CIA director: 'Women make us better'")". NBC News. November 14, 2013. Retrieved January 7, 2018. ^ a b "CIA deputy director linked to torture at Thailand black site". The Guardian. February 3, 2017. Retrieved January 7, 2018. ^ "Meroe Park Joins Butterfield Board". Butterfield Bank. October 6, 2017. Retrieved January 6, 2018. ^ "Leadership". Central Intelligence Agency. ^ "CIA Support to the US Military During the Persian Gulf War". Central Intelligence Agency. June 16, 1997. ^ "Organization chart". Central Intelligence Agency. Archived from the original on March 14, 2015. Retrieved April 11, 2015. ^ a b c "Offices of CIA – Intelligence & Analysis – History". CIA. Archived from the original on April 30, 2013. ^ "Intelligence & Analysis". Central Intelligence Agency. Retrieved July 1, 2011. ^ Miller, Greg (December 1, 2012). "DIA to send hundreds more spies overseas". The Washington Post. ^ Blanton, Thomas S.; Evans, Michael L.; Martin, Kate (July 17, 2000). "Defense HUMINT Service Organizational Chart". The "Death Squad Protection" Act: Senate Measure Would Restrict Public Access to Crucial Human Rights Information Under the Freedom of Information Act. George Washington University National Security Archive Electronic Briefing Book No. 34. ^ Pocock, Chris (2005). 50 Years of the U-2: The Complete Illustrated History of the 'Dragon Lady'. Atglen, Pennsylvania: Schiffer Publishing Ltd. p. 404. ISBN 0-7643-2346-6. LCCN 89012535. ^ a b "New CIA director inherits an agency that is quickly developing cyber capabilities". January 27, 2017. ^ "Digital Innovation — Central Intelligence Agency". ^ "Digital Targeter — Central Intelligence Agency". ^ "CIA's New "Digital Innovation" Division Can't Seem to Keep its Own Secrets". March 8, 2017. ^ Lyngaas, By Sean; Oct 01, 2015. "Inside the CIA's new Digital Directorate -". FCW.CS1 maint: numeric names: authors list (link) ^ Gellman, Barton; Miller, Greg (August 29, 2013). "'Black budget' summary details U.S. spy network's successes, failures and objectives" – via www.washingtonpost.com. ^ "CIA Creates Digital Innovation Directorate". www.bankinfosecurity.com. ^ a b c Wendt, Jeff. "A feature interview with Frans Bax, President, CIA University". Today's Campus. ^ a b Host: Mary Louise Kelly (May 28, 2004). "Inside CIA University: Higher Ed for Operatives". Morning Edition. NPR. ^ "Life in HR: Learning Resources". Central Intelligence Agency. February 12, 2013. Archived from the original on April 29, 2013. ^ "Training Resources". Central Intelligence Agency. January 23, 2013. Retrieved April 3, 2013. ^ The OSS Assessment Staff (1969) [1948]. Assessment of Men, Selection of Personnel for the Office of Strategic Services. Johnson Reprint Corporation (original printing by Rinehart and Company, Inc.). ^ Weiner, Tim (March 20, 1998). "Is the Explosion-Noisy Base a C.I.A. Spy School? What Base?". The New York Times. ^ Pike, John (2001). "Warrenton Station B". Federation of American Scientists. Archived from the original on June 5, 2009. Retrieved March 18, 2013. ^ "Office of the General Counsel" (PDF). Central Intelligence Agency. October 31, 1954. Retrieved March 27, 2013. ^ Pedlow, Gregory W.; Welzenbach, Donald E. (1992). The Central Intelligence Agency and Overhead Reconnaissance: The U-2 and OXCART Programs, 1954–1974. Washington, D.C.: History Staff, Central Intelligence Agency. pp. 43–44. ^ "Statement of the Director of Central Intelligence Regarding the Disclosure of the Aggregate Intelligence Budget for Fiscal Year 1997". Central Intelligence Agency. October 15, 1997. ^ "Declaration of Steven Aftergood". Federation of American Scientists. May 5, 2003. Case No. 02-1146 (RMU). ^ Central Intelligence Agency (September 1, 1965). "CIA Cost Reduction Program" (PDF). Federation of American Scientists. ^ "CIA Discloses FY 1998 Intelligence Budget Total". Federation of American Scientists. March 20, 1998. ^ Shane, Scott (November 8, 2005). "Official Reveals Budget for U.S. Intelligence". The New York Times. Retrieved April 29, 2013. ^ Legacy of Ashes, p. 28. ^ "Exclusive: Dozens of CIA operatives on the ground during Benghazi attack". CNN. August 1, 2013. Retrieved August 2, 2013. ^ US Defense Information Services Agency (March 19, 1999). "Zdarm (Defense Messaging Service) Genser (General Service) Message Security Classifications, Categories, and Marking Phrase Requirements Version 1.2" (PDF). Federation of American Scientists. ^ "'Verbindungsstelle 61': Ermittlungen gegen Chef von geheimer BND-Gruppe". Spiegel Online (in German). February 8, 2013. Retrieved March 28, 2014. ^ "Secret army squad keeps watch on 60 Al Qaeda in Ireland". Irish Daily Star. March 26, 2013. Archived from the original on August 20, 2014. Retrieved June 7, 2014. ^ Warner, Michael (June 13, 2013). "CIA Cold War Records: THE CIA UNDER HARRY TRUMAN — Central Intelligence Agency". CIA.gov. Retrieved June 25, 2019. ^ "Army & Navy – Merger: Navy Compromise". Time. December 10, 1945. ^ Factbook on Intelligence. Central Intelligence Agency. December 1992. pp. 4–5. ^ "The Role of Intelligence". Congress and the Nation 1945–1964: A review of government and politics in the postwar years. Washington, DC: Congressional Quarterly Service. 1965. p. 306. ^ a b "CIA – History". Federation of American Scientists. ^ Warner, Michael (1995). "The Creation of the Central Intelligence Group" (PDF). Studies in Intelligence. Center for the Study of Intelligence. 39 (5): 111–120. Retrieved September 16, 2011. ^ "Office of the General Counsel: History of the Office". Central Intelligence Agency. Retrieved August 26, 2017. ^ Breneman, Gary M. "Lawrence R. Houston: A Biography" (PDF). National Archives and Records Administration. Archived from the original (PDF) on June 29, 2015. ^ Zegart, Amy B. (September 23, 2007). "The CIA's license to fail". Los Angeles Times. ^ "George Tenet v. John Doe" (PDF). Federation of American Scientists. July 16, 2006. Retrieved July 4, 2008. ^ Thorne, Jr., C. Thomas; Patterson, David S., eds. (1996). Foreign Relations of the United States, 1945–1950, Emergence of the Intelligence Establishment. Washington, DC: U.S. Government Printing Office. ^ a b Laurie, Clayton. "The Korean War and the Central Intelligence Agency" (PDF). Center for the Study of Intelligence. Retrieved August 26, 2017. ^ a b Weiner 2007, p. 14. ^ a b c "Fifteen DCIs' First 100 Days" (PDF). Studies in Intelligence. Center for the Study of Intelligence. 38 (1). January 1993. Retrieved August 26, 2017. ^ "A Look Back: The First Director of Central Intelligence". Central Intelligence Agency. July 24, 2014. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 17. ^ "Foreign Relations of the United States, 1945–1950, Emergence of the Intelligence Establishment". U.S. Department of State. Document 292, Section 5. Retrieved July 4, 2008. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 29. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 33. ^ Rose, P. K. (2001). "Two Strategic Intelligence Mistakes in Korea, 1950". Studies in Intelligence. Center for the Study of Intelligence. 45 (5): 57–65. Retrieved August 26, 2017. ^ "The Role of Intelligence" (1965) Congress and the Nation 1945–1964. p.306. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 51. ^ Gouda, Frances (2002). American Visions of the Netherlands East Indies/Indonesia: US Foreign Policy and Indonesian Nationalism, 1920–1949. Amsterdam University Press. p. 365. ISBN 978-90-5356-479-0. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 27. ^ a b c Weiner 2007, p. 56. ^ a b c Weiner 2007, p. 57. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 58. ^ a b Weiner 2007, pp. 58–61. ^ Gasiorowski, Mark; Byrne, Malcolm (2004). Mohammad Mosaddeq and the 1953 Coup in Iran. Syracuse University Press. p. 360. ISBN 978-0-81563-018-0. ^ Risen, James (2000). "Secrets of History: The C.I.A. in Iran". The New York Times. Retrieved March 30, 2007. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 90. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 87. ^ Capuchin (September 21, 2008), U.S. and Them: Operation Ajax – Iran and the CIA coup (2/2), retrieved January 20, 2017 ^ Weiner 2007, p. 91. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 93. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 95. ^ a b Schlesinger, Stephen (June 3, 2011). "Ghosts of Guatemala's Past". The New York Times. Retrieved July 5, 2014. ^ Cooper, Allan D. (2009). The Geography of Genocide. University Press of America. p. 171. ISBN 978-0-7618-4097-8. ^ Dosal, Paul J. (1995). Doing Business with the Dictators: A Political History of United Fruit in Guatemala, 1899–1944. Rowman & Littlefield. p. 2. ISBN 978-0-84202-590-4. ^ Jones, Maggie (June 30, 2016). "The Secrets in Guatemala's Bones". The New York Times. ^ a b Immerman 1982, pp. 161–170. ^ a b c Immerman 1982, pp. 173–178. ^ Cullather, Nick (October 9, 2006). Secret History, Second Edition: The CIA's Classified Account of Its Operations in Guatemala, 1952–1954. Stanford University Press. ISBN 978-0-8047-5468-2. ^ Gleijeses, Piero (1992). Shattered Hope: The Guatemalan Revolution and the United States, 1944–1954. Princeton University Press. ISBN 0-691-02556-8. ^ Streeter, Stephen M. (2000). Managing the Counterrevolution: The United States and Guatemala, 1954–1961. Ohio University Press. ISBN 978-0-89680-215-5. ^ Bowen, Gordon L. (1983). "U.S. Foreign Policy toward Radical Change: Covert Operations in Guatemala, 1950–1954". Latin American Perspectives. 10 (1): 88–102. doi:10.1177/0094582X8301000106. ^ Navarro, Mireya (February 26, 1999). "Guatemalan Army Waged 'Genocide,' New Report Finds". The New York Times. ^ a b Weiner 2007, p. 139. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 143. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 145. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 146. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 170. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 148. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 153. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 154. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 163. ^ a b c Weiner, Tim (2007). Legacy of ashes : The history of the CIA (1st ed.). New York: Doubleday. ISBN 978-0-385-51445-3. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 172. ^ Snow, Anita (June 27, 2007). "CIA Plot to Kill Castro Detailed". The Washington Post. Washington, DC. AP. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 161. ^ "The Role of Intelligence" (1965). Congress and the Nation. p. 306 ^ Schecter, Jerrold L.; Deriabin, Peter S. (1992). The Spy Who Saved the World: How a Soviet Colonel Changed the Course of the Cold War. Scribner. ISBN 0-684-19068-0. ^ Gibbs, David N. (1995). "Let Us Forget Unpleasant Memories: The US State Department's Analysis of the Congo Crisis". Journal of Modern African Studies. 33 (1): 175–180. doi:10.1017/s0022278x0002098x. JSTOR 161559. There seems little doubt that the Congo was targeted by one of the most extensive covert operations in the history of the CIA, and its significance has been noted repeatedly by former officers, as well as by scholars. Americans in both the CIA station and the embassy directly intervened in Congolese affairs, bribing parliamentarians, setting up select units of the military, and promoting the career of General Mobutu. In addition to any assassination plots, it is well documented that the United States played an essential role in two efforts to overthrow Lumumba, both in September 1960.... ^ Gordon, Lincoln (March 27, 1964). "Top Secret Cable from Rio de Janeiro" (PDF). NSA Archives. ^ Patti, Archimedes L. A. (1980). Why Viet Nam?: Prelude to America's albatross. University of California Press. ISBN 0-520-04156-9. ^ "Status Report on Tibetan Operations". Office of the Historian. January 26, 1968. ^ Adams, Sam (1994). War of Numbers: An Intelligence Memoir. Steerforth Press. ISBN 1-883642-23-X. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 213. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 237. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 285. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 248. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 319. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 321. ^ a b Weiner 2007, p. 322. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 323. ^ Weiner Tim 2007A Legacy of Ashes: The History of the CIA New York Doubleday p. 339 ^ a b c Frum, David (2000). How We Got Here: The '70s. New York City: Basic Books. pp. 49–51. ISBN 0-465-04195-7. ^ Carl Colby (director) (September 2011). The Man Nobody Knew: In Search of My Father, CIA Spymaster William Colby (Motion picture). New York City: Act 4 Entertainment. Retrieved September 18, 2011. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 347. ^ Bronner, Michael (December 11, 2014). "Our Man in Africa". Foreign Policy. ^ Bronner, Michael (July 3, 2013). "Former Chad leader Hissène Habré charged with crimes against humanity". The Guardian. ^ "The Cost of an Afghan 'Victory'". The Nation. 1999. Archived from the original on March 2, 2014. Retrieved December 16, 2013. ^ Walsh, Declan (July 25, 2010). "Afghanistan war logs: US covered up fatal Taliban missile strike on Chinook". The Guardian. ^ "Story of US, CIA and Taliban". The Brunei Times. 2009. Archived from the original on December 5, 2013. Retrieved December 16, 2013. ^ West, Julian (September 23, 2001). "Pakistan's 'godfathers of the Taliban' hold the key to hunt for bin Laden". The Daily Telegraph. London. Retrieved April 9, 2011. ^ a b Weiner 2007, p. 380. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 397. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 468. ^ Davies, Richard T. (2004). "The CIA and the Polish Crisis of 1980–1981". Journal of Cold War Studies. 6 (3): 120–123. doi:10.1162/1520397041447346. ^ Domber, Gregory F. (2008). Supporting the Revolution: America, Democracy, and the End of the Cold War in Poland, 1981–1989. p. 199. ISBN 9780549385165. , revised as Domber 2014, p. 110. ^ Domber, Gregory F. (August 28, 2014). "What Putin Misunderstands about American Power". University of California Press Blog. University of North Carolina Press.CS1 maint: ref=harv (link) ^ MacEachin, Douglas J. (June 28, 2008). "US Intelligence and the Polish Crisis 1980–1981". Central Intelligence Agency. ^ Bernstein, Carl (June 24, 2001). "The Holy Alliance". Time – via CarlBernstein.com. ^ Sussman, Gerald (2010). Branding Democracy: U.S. Regime Change in Post-Soviet Eastern Europe. New York: Peter Lang. p. 128. ISBN 978-1-43310-530-2. ^ Arsanjani, Mahnoush H.; Cogan, Jacob Katz; Sloane, Robert D.; Wiessner, Siegfried, eds. (2011). Looking to the Future: Essays on International Law in Honor of W. Michael Reisman. Leiden & Boston: Martinus Nijhoff Publishers. ISBN 978-9-00417-361-3. ^ Daugherty, William J. (2004). Executive Secrets: Covert Action and the Presidency. Lexington: University Press of Kentucky. pp. 201–203. ISBN 978-0-81312-334-9. ^ Thiel, Rainer (2010). Nested Games of External Democracy Promotion: The United States and the Polish Liberalization 1980–1989. Wiesbaden: VS Verlag für Sozialwissenschaften. p. 273. ISBN 978-3-53117-769-4. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 428. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 429. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 430. ^ a b Weiner, Tim (2008). Legacy of Ashes: The History of the CIA. New York, NY: Anchor Books. p. 527. ^ Weiner, Tim (2008). The Legacy of Ashes: The History of the CIA. New York, NY: Anchor Books. p. 546. ^ Weiner, Tim (2008). The Legacy of Ashes: The History of the CIA. New York, NY: Anchor Books. p. 547. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 459. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 465. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 466. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 470. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 448. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 450. ^ "FBI History: Famous Cases – Aldrich Hazen Ames". Federal Bureau of Investigation. Archived from the original on June 11, 2008. Retrieved July 4, 2008. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 460. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 480. ^ Mayer, Jane (September 11, 2006). "Junior: The clandestine life of America's top Al Qaeda source". The New Yorker. Retrieved February 28, 2014. ^ Tenet, George; Harlow, Bill (2007). At the Center of the Storm: My Years at the CIA. New York: HarperCollins. pp. 119–120. ISBN 978-0-06-114778-4. OCLC 71163669. ^ a b Risen, James (November 4, 2001). "A Nation Challenged: The Intelligence Agency; Secret C.I.A. Site in New York Was Destroyed on Sept. 11". The New York Times. Retrieved December 3, 2013. ^ Schmitt, Eric (October 22, 2001). "A Nation Challenged: The Intelligence Agencies; Job Seekers Flood Spy Agencies". The New York Times. Retrieved December 3, 2013. ^ Bush, George W. "President George W. Bush's Address To The Nation on September 11, 2001". YouTube. Retrieved December 3, 2013. ^ a b "Fighting on Two Fronts: A Chronology". PBS Frontline. Retrieved December 3, 2013. ^ Tenet, George; Harlow, Bill (2007). At the Center of the Storm: My Years at the CIA. New York: HarperCollins. pp. 121–122. ISBN 978-0-06-114778-4. OCLC 71163669. ^ Tenet, George; Harlow, Bill (April 30, 2007). At the Center of the Storm: My Years at the CIA. Harper Collins. ISBN 9780061147784 – via Google Books. ^ "Same US military unit that got Osama bin Laden [sic] killed Anwar al-Awlaki". The Daily Telegraph. London. September 30, 2011. Retrieved February 12, 2012. ^ Mazzetti, Mark; Schmitt, Eric; Worth, Robert F. (September 30, 2011). "Two-Year Manhunt Led to Killing of Awlaki in Yemen". The New York Times. Retrieved November 29, 2013. ^ Shah, Saeed (July 11, 2011). "CIA organised fake vaccination drive to get Osama bin Laden's family DNA". The Guardian. London. Retrieved May 3, 2019. ^ Shah, Saeed (July 14, 2011). "CIA's fake vaccination programme criticised by Médecins Sans Frontières". The Guardian. Retrieved May 15, 2019. ^ Masood, Salman (April 29, 2019). "Pakistan's War on Polio Falters Amid Attacks on Health Workers and Mistrust". New York Times. Retrieved May 15, 2019. ^ Jones, Milo L. & Silberzahn, Philippe (2013). Constructing Cassandra, Reframing Intelligence Failure at the CIA, 1947–2001. Stanford University Press. pp. 198–202. ISBN 978-0-80479-336-0. ^ Stout, David; Mazzetti, Mark (August 21, 2007). "Tenet's C.I.A. Unprepared for Qaeda Threat, Report Says". The New York Times. Retrieved July 4, 2008. ^ "CIA criticises ex-chief over 9/11". BBC News online. August 22, 2007. Retrieved December 31, 2009. ^ Tim Winer. Legacy of Ashes: The History of the CIA. New York: Doubleday, 2007. ^ "US Concedes Contras Linked to Drugs, But Denies Leadership Involved". New York City. Associated Press. April 17, 1986. Archived from the original on January 29, 2017. Retrieved May 22, 2017. ^ Delaval, Craig (2000). "Cocaine, Conspiracy Theories & the C.I.A. in Central America". Frontline. Boston, Massachusetts: PBS. Archived from the original on April 27, 2017. Retrieved May 22, 2017. ^ Cohn, Gary; Thompson, Ginger (June 11, 1995). "When a wave of torture and murder staggered a small U.S. ally, truth was a casualty". The Baltimore Sun. Baltimore, Maryland. Archived from the original on February 16, 2017. Retrieved May 22, 2017. ^ Lakhani, Nina (October 23, 2015). "Confidential files on El Salvador human rights stolen after legal action against CIA". The Guardian. London, England. Archived from the original on February 28, 2017. Retrieved May 22, 2017. ^ "Transcript of a recording of a meeting between President Richard Nixon and H. R. Haldeman in the oval office". Wyzant. June 23, 1972. Retrieved July 4, 2008. ^ "Nixon Explains His Taped Cryptic Remark About Helms". New York Times. March 12, 1976. Retrieved June 13, 2019. ^ Gray III, L. Patrick; Gray, Ed (2008). In Nixon's Web: A Year in the Crosshairs of Watergate. Times Books/Henry Holt. ISBN 978-0-8050-8256-2. ^ a b c d e Woodward, Bob (2004). Plan of Attack. New York: Simon & Schuster. p. 467. ISBN 074325547X. ^ "Morell 'wanted to apologize' to Powell about WMD evidence". CBS News. May 11, 2015. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 491. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 496. ^ Tucker, Mike; Faddis, Charles (2008). Operation Hotel California: The Clandestine War inside Iraq. The Lyons Press. ISBN 978-1-59921-366-8. ^ "An interview on public radio with the author". Archived from the original on September 30, 2011. Retrieved March 16, 2010. ^ Weiner 2007, p. 493. ^ "Executive Order 13470". Federation of American Scientists. Retrieved March 16, 2010. ^ Strohm, Chris (August 1, 2008). "Bush Orders Intelligence Overhaul". Congress Daily – via Nuclear Threat Initiative. ^ "Osama Bin Laden killed in CIA operation". The Washington Post. May 8, 2011. ^ Dilanian, Ken (May 2, 2011). "CIA led U.S. special forces mission against Osama bin Laden". Los Angeles Times. ^ Gaffney, Frank J., Jr. (May 2, 2011). "Gaffney: Bin Laden's welcome demise". The Washington Times. Retrieved August 19, 2011. ^ Gertz, Bill (May 2, 2011). "Intelligence break led to bin Laden's hide-out". The Washington Times. Retrieved August 19, 2011. ^ Schwartz, Mathew J. (May 5, 2011). "Cracking Bin Laden's Hard Drives". InformationWeek. Archived from the original on August 13, 2011. Retrieved August 20, 2011. ^ "Osama bin Laden dead: CIA paramilitaries and elite Navy SEAL killed Al Qaeda leader". The Economic Times. May 2, 2011. Archived from the original on January 14, 2016. Retrieved August 19, 2011.CS1 maint: BOT: original-url status unknown (link) ^ "Counterterrorism chief declares al-Qaida 'in the past'". NBC News. May 2, 2011. Retrieved August 19, 2011. ^ Ross, Tim (May 4, 2011). "Osama bin Laden dead: trusted courier led US special forces to hideout". The Daily Telegraph. London. ^ "Debate rages about role of torture". CNN. May 20, 2011. ^ Miller, Greg (May 5, 2011). "CIA spied on bin Laden from safe house". The Washington Post. Retrieved August 19, 2011. ^ Mazzetti, Mark; Cooper, Helene; Baker, Peter (May 2, 2011). "Clues Gradually Led to the Location of Osama bin Laden". The New York Times. ^ "Pakistan rattled by news of CIA safe house in Abbottabad". CBS News. May 6, 2011. Archived from the original on May 9, 2011. ^ Miller, Greg; DeYoung, Karen (June 12, 2015). "Secret CIA effort in Syria faces large funding cut". The Washington Post. ^ Cloud, David S.; Abdulrahim, Raja (June 21, 2013). "U.S. has secretly provided arms training to Syria rebels since 2012". Los Angeles Times. ^ Mekhennet, Souad (August 18, 2014). "The terrorists fighting us now? We just finished training them". The Washington Post. ^ Mahmood, Mona (November 23, 2014). "US air strikes in Syria driving anti-Assad groups to support Isis". The Guardian. ^ Hersh, Seymour (January 7, 2016). "Military to Military". London Review of Books. 38 (1). Retrieved November 29, 2016. ^ Petkova, Mariya (April 6, 2017). "Syria's 'moderate rebels' to form a new alliance". Al Jazeera. ^ Jaffe, Greg; Entous, Adam (July 19, 2017). "Trump ends covert CIA program to arm anti-Assad rebels in Syria, a move sought by Moscow". The Washington Post. Retrieved July 21, 2017. ^ a b c "Message to the Workforce from CIA Director John Brennan: Our Agency's Blueprint for the Future". Central Intelligence Agency. March 6, 2015. ^ Welna, David (March 14, 2017). "Trump Restores CIA Power To Launch Drone Strikes". NPR. Retrieved August 26, 2017. ^ "How the CIA used Crypto AG encryption devices to spy on countries for decades - Washington Post". ^ "The CIA's 'Minerva' Secret | National Security Archive". nsarchive.gwu.edu. ^ Mercado, Stephen (April 15, 2007). "Reexamining the Distinction Between Open Information and Secrets". Center for the Study of Intelligence. Retrieved July 4, 2008. ^ "Joint Publications Research Service (JPRS)". Harvard College Library. Retrieved July 1, 2011. ^ Smith, Esther (May 5, 1988). "DoD Unveils Competitive Tool: Project Socrates Offers Valuable Analysis". Washington Technology. ^ Wrubel, Robert (July 10, 1990). "The Frontal Assault: A Conversation with Michael Sekora". Financial World. ^ Claburn, Thomas (February 6, 2008). "CIA Monitors YouTube For Intelligence". InformationWeek. Archived from the original on February 10, 2008. Retrieved February 11, 2008. ^ Pfeiffer, Eric (June 6, 2014). "CIA outwits impersonators by embracing Twitter, Facebook". Yahoo! News. ^ "Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008, Conference Committee Report" (PDF). Federation of American Scientists. December 6, 2007. ^ a b Hillhouse, R. J. (July 8, 2007). "Who Runs the CIA? Outsiders for Hire". The Washington Post. Retrieved July 4, 2008. ^ Keefe, Patrick Radden (June 25, 2007). "Don't Privatize Our Spies". The New York Times. Retrieved July 4, 2008. ^ a b c d Hillhouse, R. J. (December 18, 2007). "CIA Contractors: Double or Nothin'". thespywhobilledme.com. ^ Shorrock, Tim (May 29, 2008). "Former high-ranking Bush officials enjoy war profits". Salon.com. Archived from the original on June 2, 2008. Retrieved June 16, 2008. ^ Hurt III, Harry (June 15, 2008). "The Business of Intelligence Gathering". The New York Times. Retrieved June 18, 2008. ^ Butler, Amy (March 20, 2005). "SBIRS High in the Red Again". Aviation Week. ^ Taubman, Philip (November 11, 2007). "In Death of Spy Satellite Program, Lofty Plans and Unrealistic Bids". The New York Times. Retrieved April 29, 2013. ^ Rich, Ben R. (1996). Skunk Works: A Personal Memoir of My Years of Lockheed. Back Bay Books. ISBN 0-316-74330-5. ^ Clancy, Tom (1984). The Hunt for Red October. HarperCollins. ISBN 0-87021-285-0. ^ Greene, Graham (2004). The Quiet American. Penguin Classics. ISBN 0-14-303902-4. References Immerman, Richard H. (1982). The CIA in Guatemala: The Foreign Policy of Intervention. University of Texas Press. ISBN 978-0-292-71083-2.CS1 maint: ref=harv (link) Weiner, Tim (2007). Legacy of Ashes: The History of the CIA. New York: Doubleday. ISBN 978-0-385-51445-3. OCLC 82367780.CS1 maint: ref=harv (link) Further reading Library resources about Central Intelligence Agency Resources in your library Resources in other libraries Agee, Philip (1975). Inside the Company: CIA Diary. Harmondsworth: Penguin. ISBN 0-140-04007-2. Aldrich, Richard J. (2001). The Hidden Hand: Britain, America and Cold War Secret Intelligence. London: John Murray. ISBN 0-7195-5423-3. OCLC 46513534. Andrew, Christopher (1996). For the President's Eyes Only. HarperCollins. ISBN 0-00-638071-9. Baer, Robert (2003). Sleeping with the Devil: How Washington Sold Our Soul for Saudi Crude. Crown. ISBN 1-4000-5021-9. Bearden, Milton; James Risen (2003). The Main Enemy: The Inside Story of the CIA's Final Showdown With the KGB. Random House. ISBN 0-679-46309-7. Coll, Steve (2004). Ghost Wars: The Secret History of the CIA, Afghanistan, and Bin Laden, from the Soviet Invasion to September 10, 2001. Penguin Group. ISBN 978-1594200076. Dujmovic, Nicholas, "Drastic Actions Short of War: The Origins and Application of CIA's Covert Paramilitary Function in the Early Cold War," Journal of Military History, 76 (July 2012), 775–808 Gibson, Bryan R. (2015). Sold Out? US Foreign Policy, Iraq, the Kurds, and the Cold War. Palgrave Macmillan. ISBN 978-1-137-48711-7. Hilsman, Roger. To Move a Nation: The Politics of Foreign Policy in the Administration of John F. Kennedy (1967) pp 63–88. Jacobsen, Annie (2019). Surprise, Kill, Vanish, The Secret History of CIA Paramilitary Armies, Operators, and Assassins. Little, Brown and Company. ISBN 978-0316441438. Jeffreys-Jones, Rhodri. Cloak and Dollar: A History of American Secret Intelligence (Yale University Press, 2002). Jeffreys-Jones, Rhodri. The CIA and American Democracy (Yale University Press, 1989). Jeffreys-Jones, Rhodri. American Espionage: From Secret Service to CIA (Free Press, 1977). Jeffreys-Jones, Rhodri. "Antecedents and Memory as Factors in the Creation of the CIA," Diplomatic History, 40/1 (January 2016): 140-54. Johnson, Loch K. (1991). America's Secret Power: The CIA in a Democratic Society. Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-505490-3. Jones, Ishmael (2010). The Human Factor: Inside the CIA's Dysfunctional Intelligence Culture. Encounter Books. ISBN 978-1-59403-223-3. Jones, Milo; Silberzahn, Philippe (2013). Constructing Cassandra, Reframing Intelligence Failure at the CIA, 1947–2001. Stanford University Press. ISBN 978-0804793360. Kessler, Ronald (2003). The CIA at War: Inside the Secret Campaign Against Terror. St. Martin's Press. ISBN 0-312-31932-0. Kinzer, Stephen (2003). All the Shah's Men: An American Coup and the Roots of Middle East Terror. John Wiley & Sons. ISBN 978-0470185490. Marchetti, Victor; John D. Marks (1974). The CIA and the Cult of Intelligence. Knopf. ISBN 0-394-48239-5. McCoy, Alfred W. (1972). The Politics of Heroin in Southeast Asia. Harper Colophon. ISBN 978-0-06-090328-2. McCoy, Alfred W. (2006). A Question of Torture: CIA Interrogation, from the Cold War to the War on Terror. New York: Owl Books (Henry Holt & Co.). ISBN 0-8050-8248-4. OCLC 78821099. Mahle, Melissa Boyle (2004). Denial and Deception: An Insider's View of the CIA from Iran-Contra to 9/11. Nation Books. ISBN 1-56025-649-4. Powers, Thomas (1979). The Man Who Kept the Secrets: Richard Helms & the CIA. Alfred A. Knopf. ISBN 978-0394507774. Prados, John. Presidents' Secret Wars: CIA and Pentagon Covert Operations from World War II Through the Persian Gulf War (1996) Ranelagh, John. CIA: A History (1992) very favorable review Rositzke, Harry (1977). The CIA's Secret Operations. Reader's Digest Press. ISBN 0-88349-116-8. Ruth, Steven (2011). My Twenty Years as a CIA Officer: It's All About The Mission. Charleston, SC: CreateSpace. ISBN 978-1-4565-7170-2. Sheymov, Victor (1993). Tower of Secrets. U.S. Naval Institute Press. ISBN 978-1-55750-764-8. Smith, W. Thomas, Jr. (2003). Encyclopedia of the Central Intelligence Agency. Facts on File. ISBN 0-8160-4667-0. Turner, Stansfield (2006). Burn Before Reading: Presidents, CIA Directors, and Secret Intelligence. Hyperion. ISBN 0-7868-8666-8. Wallace, Robert; Melton, H. Keith; Schlesinger, Henry R. (2008). Spycraft: The Secret History of the CIA's Spytechs, from Communism to al-Qaeda. New York: Dutton. ISBN 978-0-525-94980-0. OCLC 18255288. Wise, David; Ross, Thomas B. (1964). The Invisible Government. Random House. ISBN 978-0394430775. External links Central Intelligence Agencyat Wikipedia's sister projects Media from Wikimedia Commons News from Wikinews Texts from Wikisource Official website Central Intelligence Agency at the Wayback Machine (archive index) CIA Freedom of Information Act Electronic Reading Room Landscapes of Secrecy: The CIA in History, Fiction and Memory (2011) Works by or about Central Intelligence Agency at Internet Archive Works by Central Intelligence Agency at LibriVox (public domain audiobooks) Central Intelligence Collection at Internet Archive v t e Central Intelligence Agency United States Intelligence Community (CIA Headquarters: George Bush Center for Intelligence, Langley, Virginia) Geographic activities Americas Russia and Europe Africa Asia Transnational activities Terrorism Arms control, WMD, and proliferation Crime and illicit drug trade Health and economy Human rights Influence on public opinion Organisation Directorate of Analysis Directorate of Science & Technology Directorate of Operations (Special Activities Division, National Resources Division) Directorate of Support Works The Invisible Government (1964) Official reports by the U.S. Government on the CIA v t e United States Intelligence Community Intelligence Community Defense Defense Intelligence Agency Defense Clandestine Service Defense Debriefing Service Defense Attaché System National Intelligence University Missile and Space Intelligence Center National Center for Medical Intelligence Joint Functional Component Command for Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency National Reconnaissance Office National Security Agency Central Security Service Special Collection Service Armed Forces Army Intelligence and Security Command Marine Corps Intelligence Office of Naval Intelligence Twenty-Fifth Air Force Coast Guard Intelligence (Homeland Security) Civilian Bureau of Intelligence and Research (State) Central Intelligence Agency Directorate of Operations Special Activities Division Open Source Center Directorate of Science and Technology CIA University DEA Office of National Security Intelligence (Justice) FBI Intelligence Branch (Justice) Office of Intelligence and Analysis (Homeland Security) Office of Intelligence and Analysis (Treasury) Office of Intelligence and Counterintelligence (Energy) Director of National Intelligence Director of National Intelligence National Counterterrorism Center National Counterproliferation Center National Counterintelligence and Security Center Cyber Threat Intelligence Integration Center National Intelligence Council Intelligence Advanced Research Projects Activity Joint Intelligence Community Council Chief Information Officer Executive Office of the President National Security Advisor National Security Council President's Intelligence Advisory Board Homeland Security Council Homeland Security Advisor President's Daily Brief Other Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency National Security Division (Justice) Army Intelligence Support Activity Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communications System Intellipedia Oversight Senate Intelligence Committee House Intelligence Committee Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board Office of Management and Budget Defunct Contingency Fund for Foreign Intercourse Counterintelligence Field Activity Military Information Division Military Intelligence Division Military Intelligence Service Office of Strategic Services Office of Special Plans Strategic Support Branch v t e National intelligence agencies Foreign intelligence Afghanistan: NDS Albania: SHISH Algeria: DRS Argentina: AFI Armenia: NSS Australia: ASIS Azerbaijan: MTN Bahrain: NSA Bangladesh: NSI Belarus: KGB RB Belgium: ADIV/SGRS Bosnia and Herzegovina: OSA-OBA Brazil: ABIN Brunei: BRD Bulgaria: NRS Cameroon: BMM Canada: CSIS Chad: ANS Chile: ANI China: MSS Congo (Democratic Republic of): ANR Croatia: SOA Cuba: DI Czech Republic: ÚZSI Denmark: FE Djibouti: BSRG Ecuador: SENAIN Egypt: Mukhabarat Estonia: EFIS France: DGSE Gambia: SIS Georgia: GIS Germany: BND Ghana: BNI, BGU, RDU Greece: EYP Hungary: IH India: RAW Indonesia: BIN Iran: VAJA Iraq: GSD Ireland: G2 Israel: Mossad Italy: AISE Ivory Coast: NSC Japan: NPA, CIRO Jordan: GID Kazakhstan: Syrbar Kenya: NIS Kyrgyzstan: SNB Kuwait: KSS Latvia: SAB Lithuania: VSD Lebanon: GDGS Libya: MJ Republic of Macedonia: UBK Malaysia: MEIO Maldives: NSS Mexico: CISEN Moldova: SIS Mongolia: GIA Montenegro: ANB Morocco: DGST Mozambique: SISE Netherlands: AIVD New Zealand: NZSIS Nigeria: NIA North Korea: RGB Norway: E-tjenesten Oman: Palace Office Pakistan: ISI Papua New Guinea: NIO Philippines: NICA Poland: AW Portugal: SIED Qatar: QSS Romania: SIE Russia: SVR Saudi Arabia: Al Mukhabarat Al A'amah Serbia: BIA Sierra Leone: CISU Singapore: SID Slovakia: SIS Slovenia: SOVA Somalia: NISA South Africa: SSA South Korea: NIS Spain: CNI Sri Lanka: SIS Sudan: JAWM Sweden: KSI Switzerland: NDB Syria: GSD Taiwan: NSB Tajikistan: GKNB Thailand: NIA Togo: NIA Tunisia: TIA Turkey: MİT Turkmenistan: MNS Uganda: ISO Ukraine: SZRU United Arab Emirates: UAEI United Kingdom: SIS (MI6) United States: CIA Uzbekistan: SSS Vietnam: TC2 Domestic intelligence Algeria: DRS Argentina: AFI Australia: ASIO Azerbaijan: MTN Bangladesh: SB Belarus: KGB RB Belgium: VS/SE Bosnia and Herzegovina: SIPA Brazil: PF Brunei: IRD Canada: CSIS Chile: ANI China: MSS Congo (Democratic Republic of): ANR Croatia: SOA Czech Republic: BIS Denmark: PET Egypt: EHS Estonia: KAPO Finland: Supo France: DGSI Germany: BfV Ghana: GPS, CID Greece: EYP Hong Kong: CIB Hungary: AH India: IB, CBI, NSC, AIRMS Indonesia: POLRI Iran: VAJA, IRGC, PAVA Ireland: CSB, SDU, NSU Israel: Shin Bet Italy: AISI Kazakhstan: NSC Kenya: NIS Latvia: DP Lithuania: STT Republic of Macedonia: IA Malaysia: SB Moldova: SIS Japan: NPA, PSIA Netherlands: NCTb New Zealand: NZSIS Nigeria: SSS Norway: PST North Korea: SSD Oman: ISS Pakistan: IB, FIA Philippines: NBI Poland: ABW Portugal: SIS Romania: SRI Russia: FSB Saudi Arabia: Mabahith Serbia: BIA Singapore: ISD South Africa: SSA South Korea: SPO Spain: CITCO Sri Lanka: SIS Sweden: SÄPO Switzerland: NDB Syria: GSD Taiwan: MJIB Thailand: ISOC, SB Turkey: KDGM Ukraine: SBU United Kingdom: Security Service (MI5), NDEDIU, NCA, NBIS United States: FBI Uzbekistan: SNB Venezuela: SEBIN Vietnam: TC5 Zimbabwe: CIO Military intelligence Australia: DIO Bangladesh: DGFI Belarus: GRU MO RB Belgium: ADIV/SGRS Brazil: DIE Canada: Int Branch China: MID Congo (Democratic Republic of): DEMIAP Croatia: VSOA Czech Republic: VZ Denmark: FE Egypt: DMISR Finland: PE TIEDOS France: DRM, DGSE Germany: MAD Ghana: MIU Hungary: KNBSZ Iran: General Staff, SAHEFAJA, SAHEFASA, SAHEFAVEDJA India: DMI, DIA Indonesia: BAIS Ireland: G2 Israel: Aman Italy: CII Japan: MIC Kazakhstan: NSC Lithuania: AOTD Republic of Macedonia: MSSI Malaysia: DSID Morocco: DGED Netherlands: MIVD New Zealand: DDIS North Korea: RGB Norway: E-tjenesten Pakistan: MI, NI, AI Philippines: ISAFP Poland: SKW, SWW Portugal: CISMIL Romania: DGIA Russia: GRU Saudi Arabia: AFISC Serbia: VOA, VBA Singapore: MIO Slovakia: VSS Slovenia: OVS South Africa: SANDF-ID South Korea: DIA, DSSC Spain: CIFAS Sri Lanka: DMI Sweden: MUST Switzerland: MND Syria: MI, AFID Taiwan: MND Thailand: AFSC Turkey: GENKUR İ.D.B., JİTEM Ukraine: HUR MO United Kingdom: DI United States: DIA Venezuela: DGCIM Vietnam: TC2 Signals intelligence Australia: ASD Brazil: 2ª Sch/EMD Canada: CSE China: SIGINT Croatia: OTC Finland: PVTIEDL France: DGSE Germany: BND Ghana: RDU India: JCB,NTRO Indonesia: BSSN Ireland: CIS Israel: 8200 Japan: DIH Kazakhstan: NSC Netherlands: NSO New Zealand: GCSB North Korea: RGB Pakistan: JSIB Russia: Spetssvyaz Saudi Arabia: PSS South Africa: SSA Sweden: FRA Switzerland: NDB Syria: MI Turkey: MİT-ETİB, MİT-SİB UAE: SIA Ukraine: Derzhspetszviazok United Kingdom: GCHQ United States: NSA Imagery intelligence Australia: AGO Finland: PVTIEDL India: DAI Indonesia: BIG Israel: Air Intelligence Group Malaysia: MaCGDI New Zealand: GEOINT NZ Portugal: CIGeoE Russia: TsVTI GRU United Kingdom: DGIFC United States: NGA Financial intelligence Argintenia: UIF Australia: AUSTRAC Canada: FINTRAC France: Tracfin Inodnesia: PPATK Ireland: GNECB Qatar: FIU Russia: Rosfinmonitoring United Kingdom: NCA United States: TFI, FinCEN Related topics Espionage Global surveillance disclosures Chelsea Manning Snowden leaks WikiLeaks Great Firewall of China Mass surveillance in China Law enforcement Surveillance Big Brother Call detail record Carnivore Dishfire ECHELON PRISM Stone Ghost Turbulence (NSA programme) National security Surveillance issues in smart cities v t e Cold War USA USSR NATO ANZUS SEATO METO Warsaw Pact Non-Aligned Movement Cold War II 1940s Morgenthau Plan Hukbalahap Rebellion Jamaican political conflict Dekemvriana Percentages agreement Yalta Conference Guerrilla war in the Baltic states Forest Brothers Operation Priboi Operation Jungle Occupation of the Baltic states Cursed soldiers Operation Unthinkable Operation Downfall Potsdam Conference Gouzenko Affair Division of Korea Operation Masterdom Operation Beleaguer Operation Blacklist Forty Iran crisis of 1946 Greek Civil War Baruch Plan Corfu Channel incident Turkish Straits crisis Restatement of Policy on Germany First Indochina War Truman Doctrine Asian Relations Conference May 1947 crises Marshall Plan Comecon 1948 Czechoslovak coup d'état Al-Wathbah uprising 1947–1949 Palestine war 1947–1948 Civil War in Mandatory Palestine 1948 Arab–Israeli War 1948 Palestinian exodus Tito–Stalin split Berlin Blockade Western betrayal Iron Curtain Eastern Bloc Western Bloc Chinese Civil War Malayan Emergency March 1949 Syrian coup d'état Albanian Subversion 1950s Bamboo Curtain Korean War McCarthyism Mau Mau Uprising Algerian War Egyptian revolution of 1952 1953 Iranian coup d'état East German uprising of 1953 Pact of Madrid Bricker Amendment 1954 Guatemalan coup d'état 1954 Geneva Conference Jebel Akhdar War Vietnam War First Taiwan Strait Crisis Cyprus Emergency Geneva Summit (1955) Bandung Conference Poznań protests of 1956 Hungarian Revolution of 1956 Suez Crisis "We will bury you" Ifni War Operation Gladio Arab Cold War Syrian Crisis of 1957 1958 Lebanon crisis Iraqi 14 July Revolution Sputnik crisis Second Taiwan Strait Crisis 1959 Tibetan uprising 1959 Mosul uprising Cuban Revolution Kitchen Debate Sino-Soviet split 1960s Congo Crisis Simba rebellion 1960 U-2 incident Bay of Pigs Invasion 1960 Turkish coup d'état Soviet–Albanian split Iraqi–Kurdish conflict First Iraqi–Kurdish War Berlin Crisis of 1961 Berlin Wall Papua conflict Sand War Portuguese Colonial War Angolan War of Independence Guinea-Bissau War of Independence Mozambican War of Independence Cuban Missile Crisis El Porteñazo Sino-Indian War Communist insurgency in Sarawak Ramadan Revolution Eritrean War of Independence North Yemen Civil War 1963 Syrian coup d'état Assassination of John F. Kennedy Aden Emergency Cyprus crisis of 1963–64 Vietnam War Shifta War Mexican Dirty War Tlatelolco massacre Guatemalan Civil War Colombian conflict 1964 Brazilian coup d'état Dominican Civil War Rhodesian Bush War South African Border War Transition to the New Order (Indonesia) Domino theory ASEAN Declaration Laotian Civil War 1966 Syrian coup d'état Argentine Revolution Korean DMZ Conflict Greek military junta of 1967–1974 Years of Lead (Italy) USS Pueblo incident Six-Day War War of Attrition Dhofar Rebellion Al-Wadiah War Nigerian Civil War Protests of 1968 May 68 Cultural Revolution Prague Spring 1968 Polish political crisis Communist insurgency in Malaysia Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia 17 July Revolution 1969 Libyan coup d'état Football War Goulash Communism Sino-Soviet border conflict CPP–NPA–NDF rebellion Corrective Move 1970s Détente Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty Black September Alcora Exercise Corrective Movement (Syria) Western Sahara conflict Cambodian Civil War Vietnam War Koza riot Realpolitik Ping-pong diplomacy Corrective Revolution (Egypt) 1971 Turkish military memorandum 1971 Sudanese coup d'état Four Power Agreement on Berlin Bangladesh Liberation War 1972 Nixon visit to China North Yemen-South Yemen Border conflict of 1972 Yemenite War of 1972 Communist insurgency in Bangladesh Eritrean Civil Wars 1973 Uruguayan coup d'état 1973 Afghan coup d'état 1973 Chilean coup d'état Yom Kippur War 1973 oil crisis Carnation Revolution Spanish transition to democracy Metapolitefsi Strategic Arms Limitation Talks Second Iraqi–Kurdish War Turkish invasion of Cyprus Angolan Civil War Mozambican Civil War Oromo conflict Ogaden War Western Sahara War Ethiopian Civil War Lebanese Civil War Sino-Albanian split Cambodian–Vietnamese War Operation Condor Dirty War (Argentina) 1976 Argentine coup d'état Libyan–Egyptian War German Autumn Korean Air Lines Flight 902 Nicaraguan Revolution Uganda–Tanzania War NDF Rebellion Chadian–Libyan conflict Yemenite War of 1979 Grand Mosque seizure Iranian Revolution Saur Revolution Sino-Vietnamese War New Jewel Movement 1979 Herat uprising Seven Days to the River Rhine Struggle against political abuse of psychiatry in the Soviet Union 1980s Soviet–Afghan War 1980 and 1984 Summer Olympics boycotts Peruvian conflict 1980 Turkish coup d'état Gulf of Sidra incident Casamance conflict Ugandan Bush War Lord's Resistance Army insurgency Eritrean Civil Wars 1982 Ethiopian–Somali Border War Ndogboyosoi War United States invasion of Grenada Able Archer 83 Star Wars Iran–Iraq War Somali Rebellion 1986 Black Sea incident South Yemen Civil War Toyota War 1988 Black Sea bumping incident Bougainville Civil War 8888 Uprising Solidarity Soviet reaction Contras Central American crisis RYAN Korean Air Lines Flight 007 People Power Revolution Glasnost Perestroika Nagorno-Karabakh War Afghan Civil War United States invasion of Panama 1988 Polish strikes 1989 Tiananmen Square protests Revolutions of 1989 Fall of the Berlin Wall Fall of the inner German border Velvet Revolution Romanian Revolution Peaceful Revolution 1990s Mongolian Revolution of 1990 Gulf War German reunification Yemeni unification Fall of communism in Albania Breakup of Yugoslavia Dissolution of Czechoslovakia Dissolution of the Soviet Union Frozen conflicts Abkhazia China-Taiwan Korea Puerto Rico Kosovo Nagorno-Karabakh South Ossetia Transnistria Sino-Indian border dispute North Borneo dispute Foreign policy Truman Doctrine Containment Eisenhower Doctrine Domino theory Hallstein Doctrine Kennedy Doctrine Peaceful coexistence Ostpolitik Johnson Doctrine Brezhnev Doctrine Nixon Doctrine Ulbricht Doctrine Carter Doctrine Reagan Doctrine Rollback Sovereignty of Puerto Rico during the Cold War Ideologies Capitalism Liberalism Chicago school Keynesianism Libertarianism Monetarism Neoclassical economics Reaganomics Supply-side economics Thatcherism Communism Socialism Marxism–Leninism Castroism Eurocommunism Guevarism Hoxhaism Juche Maoism Trotskyism Naxalism Stalinism Titoism Other Imperialism Anti-imperialism Nationalism Ultranationalism Chauvinism Ethnic nationalism Racism Zionism Fascism Neo-Nazism Islamism Totalitarianism Authoritarianism Autocracy Liberal democracy Illiberal democracy Guided democracy Social democracy Third-Worldism White supremacy White nationalism White separatism Apartheid Organizations NATO SEATO METO EEC Warsaw Pact Comecon Non-Aligned Movement ASEAN SAARC CIA MI6 KGB Stasi Safari Club Propaganda Active measures Amerika Crusade for Freedom Izvestia Pravda Voice of America Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty Radio Free Asia Red Scare Soviet Life TASS Races Arms race Nuclear arms race Space Race Historians Gar Alperovitz Thomas A. Bailey Michael Beschloss Archie Brown Warren H. Carroll Adrian Cioroianu John Costello Michael Cox Nicholas J. Cull Willem Drees Robert D. English Herbert Feis Robert Hugh Ferrell André Fontaine Anneli Ute Gabanyi John Lewis Gaddis Lloyd Gardner Timothy Garton Ash Gabriel Gorodetsky Fred Halliday Jussi Hanhimäki John Earl Haynes Patrick J. Hearden Tvrtko Jakovina Tony Judt Harvey Klehr Gabriel Kolko Walter LaFeber Walter Laqueur Melvyn Leffler Geir Lundestad Mary Elise Sarotte Vojtech Mastny Jack F. Matlock Jr. Thomas J. McCormick Timothy Naftali Marius Oprea David S. Painter William B. Pickett Ronald E. Powaski Yakov M. Rabkin Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. Ellen Schrecker Giles Scott-Smith Shen Zhihua Athan Theoharis Andrew Thorpe Vladimir Tismăneanu Patrick Vaughan Alex von Tunzelmann Odd Arne Westad William Appleman Williams Jonathan Reed Winkler Rudolph Winnacker Ken Young See also Allied intervention in the Russian Civil War List of Eastern Bloc agents in the United States Soviet espionage in the United States Soviet Union–United States relations USSR–USA summits Russian espionage in the United States American espionage in the Soviet Union and Russian Federation Russia–NATO relations Brinkmanship CIA and the Cultural Cold War Cold War II Russian Revolution Category Commons Timeline List of conflicts v t e US war on terror War in Afghanistan (2001–2016) Iraq War (2003–2011) Symbolism of terrorism Participants Operational ISAF Operation Enduring Freedom participants Afghanistan Northern Alliance Iraq (Iraqi Armed Forces) NATO Pakistan United Kingdom United States European Union Philippines Ethiopia Targets al-Qaeda Osama bin Laden al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula Abu Sayyaf Anwar al-Awlaki Al-Shabaab Boko Haram Harkat-ul-Jihad al-Islami Hizbul Mujahideen Islamic Courts Union Jaish-e-Mohammed Jemaah Islamiyah Lashkar-e-Taiba Taliban Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan Conflicts Operation Enduring Freedom War in Afghanistan OEF – Philippines Georgia Train and Equip Program Georgia Sustainment and Stability OEF – Horn of Africa OEF – Trans Sahara Drone strikes in Pakistan Other Operation Active Endeavour Insurgency in the Maghreb (2002–present) Insurgency in the North Caucasus Moro conflict in the Philippines Iraq War Iraqi insurgency Operation Linda Nchi Terrorism in Saudi Arabia Insurgency in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa War in Somalia (2006–2009) 2007 Lebanon conflict al-Qaeda insurgency in Yemen See also Abu Ghraib torture and prisoner abuse Axis of evil Black sites Bush Doctrine Clash of Civilizations Cold War Combatant Status Review Tribunal Criticism of the war on terror Death of Osama bin Laden Enhanced interrogation techniques Torture Memos Extrajudicial prisoners Extraordinary rendition Guantanamo Bay detention camp Iranian Revolution Islamic terrorism Islamism Military Commissions Act of 2006 North Korea and weapons of mass destruction Terrorist Surveillance Program Operation Noble Eagle Operation Eagle Assist Pakistan's role Patriot Act President's Surveillance Program Protect America Act of 2007 September 11 attacks State Sponsors of Terrorism Targeted killing Targeted Killing in International Law Targeted Killings: Law and Morality in an Asymmetrical World Unitary executive theory Unlawful combatant Withdrawal of U.S. troops from Afghanistan Withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq CAGE Portals: Terrorism · War Authority control BNE: XX111625 BNF: cb118839832 (data) CANTIC: a10080910 GND: 1021698-4 ISNI: 0000 0001 2170 1744 LCCN: n79099301 NKC: kn20021205002 NLA: 35564157 SELIBR: 133754 SNAC: w61v9f4b SUDOC: 027225496 VIAF: 140094734 WorldCat Identities: lccn-n79099301 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Central_Intelligence_Agency&oldid=953839559" Categories: Central Intelligence Agency 1947 establishments in Virginia Government agencies established in 1947 Anti-communist organizations in the United States McLean, Virginia United States intelligence agencies Cold War in popular culture Intelligence analysis agencies Hidden categories: CS1 maint: numeric names: authors list CS1 German-language sources (de) CS1 maint: ref=harv CS1 maint: BOT: original-url status unknown Articles with short description Wikipedia pages semi-protected against vandalism Use American English from February 2019 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Use American English from February 2014 Use mdy dates from August 2018 Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2013 All articles containing potentially dated statements Articles to be expanded from May 2019 All articles to be expanded Articles using small message boxes All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from June 2012 Articles containing French-language text Articles containing Russian-language text Articles containing German-language text Articles containing overly long summaries Wikipedia articles needing clarification from June 2015 All articles with failed verification Articles with failed verification from April 2017 Articles with unsourced statements from October 2016 Articles with unsourced statements from August 2016 Articles with unsourced statements from July 2017 All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from November 2019 Wikipedia articles needing clarification from July 2018 Articles with unsourced statements from July 2018 Webarchive template wayback links Articles with Internet Archive links Articles with LibriVox links Wikipedia articles with BNE identifiers Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers Wikipedia articles with CANTIC identifiers Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers Wikipedia articles with NKC identifiers Wikipedia articles with NLA identifiers Wikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiers Wikipedia articles with SNAC-ID identifiers Wikipedia articles with SUDOC identifiers Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers Wikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read View source View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikinews Wikiquote Wikisource Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Afrikaans العربية Արեւմտահայերէն Armãneashti Asturianu Azərbaycanca বাংলা Bân-lâm-gú Башҡортса Беларуская Беларуская (тарашкевіца)‎ Български Bosanski Brezhoneg Català Чӑвашла Čeština Cymraeg Dansk Deutsch Eesti Ελληνικά Español Esperanto Euskara فارسی Français Frysk Gaeilge Galego ગુજરાતી 한국어 Հայերեն हिन्दी Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Íslenska Italiano עברית Jawa ಕನ್ನಡ ქართული Қазақша Kiswahili Kurdî Latina Latviešu Lietuvių Magyar Македонски മലയാളം मराठी მარგალური Bahasa Melayu Монгол မြန်မာဘာသာ Nederlands नेपाली 日本語 Napulitano Nordfriisk Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Occitan Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча ਪੰਜਾਬੀ پنجابی Polski Português Română Русский Scots Shqip Sicilianu සිංහල Simple English Slovenčina Slovenščina Ślůnski کوردی Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Sunda Suomi Svenska Tagalog தமிழ் Татарча/tatarça ไทย Тоҷикӣ Türkçe Українська اردو Tiếng Việt 文言 吴语 ייִדיש Yorùbá 粵語 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 29 April 2020, at 09:18 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view