https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lectern
Lectern - Wikipedia
Lectern From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Marble lectern in the Pisa Baptistery, Italy A lectern (from the Latin lectus, past participle of legere, "to read") is a reading desk, with a slanted top, usually placed on a stand or affixed to some other form of support, on which documents or books are placed as support for reading aloud, as in a scripture reading, lecture, or sermon. To facilitate eye-contact and improve posture when facing an audience, lecterns may have adjustable height and slant. People generally use lecterns while standing. In pre-modern usage, the word lectern was used to refer specifically to the "reading desk or stand ... from which the Scripture lessons (lectiones) ... are chanted or read."[1] One 1905 dictionary states that "the term is properly applied only to the class mentioned [church book stands] as independent of the pulpit."[2] By the 1920s, however, the term was being used in a broader sense, for example, in reference to a memorial service in Carnegie Hall, it was stated that "the lectern from which the speakers talked was enveloped in black."[3]The lectern is usually made from wood and has either a cross on the back or a peregrine falcon. Contents 1 Use 1.1 Academic context 1.2 Religious context 1.2.1 Christian 1.2.2 Jewish 2 See also 3 Notes and references 4 External links Use[edit] Academic context[edit] A lectern in a US District Courthouse, similar to those found in academic lecture theatres An early-twenty-first century lectern at the University of Canberra (2008) Lecterns used in academia—generally in seminar rooms and lecture theatres—may have certain features that common lecterns lack, based on the technological sophistication of the venue. These features usually include a microphone stand, audio-visual controls, sometimes even an integrated computer and recording system. Lecterns of this sort are generally attached or integrated into a large desk, as the amount of support material tends to be larger in academic contexts than in straightforward public talks. Religious context[edit] Eagle lectern in the choir hall of Aachen cathedral with a bat cast in 1874 in Stolberg. The bat on the eagle's back serves to stabilize the damaged lectern. Christian[edit] In the Christian Church, the lectern is usually the stand on which the Bible rests and from which the "lessons" (reading from Scripture) are read during the service. The lessons may be read or chanted by a priest, deacon, minister, or layperson, depending upon the liturgical traditions of the community. The lectern is normally set in front of the pews, so that the reader or speaker faces the congregation. Lecterns are often made of wood. They may be either fixed in place or portable. A lectern differs from a pulpit, the latter being used for sermons. Churches that have both a lectern and a pulpit will often place them on opposite sides. The lectern will generally be smaller than the pulpit, and both may be adorned with antipendia in the color of the liturgical season. In monastic churches and cathedrals, a separate lectern is commonly set in the centre of the choir. Originally this would have carried the antiphonal book, for use by the cantor or precentor leading the singing of the divine office. Lecterns often take the form of eagle lecterns to symbolise John the Apostle.[4][5] Especially in North America and Great Britain lecterns are sometimes made as 'angel lecterns'. Jewish[edit] Because the Torah scrolls are generally large, the central feature of the bimah in a synagogue is a table large enough to hold an open Torah along with a tikkun or Chumash (reference books used to check the reading). In some synagogues, this table may resemble a large lectern. The Hebrew term for this article of furniture is amud (Hebrew: עמוד‎) [6]. In traditional yeshivas and some synagogues, students and members of the congregation may use small desks called shtenders (Yiddish: שטענדער‎). These closely resemble conventional lecterns, and indeed, one shtender may be used as a lectern by the Hazzan leading the service. Note however that each study group in a yeshivah may have its own shtender and in some older synagogues, individual members of the congregation may have their own shtenders.[7][8] Traditional shtenders frequently incorporate a locker under the desktop where prayerbooks and study material may be locked when not in use, and many feature a footrest for comfort during extended study sessions or standing prayers. Some older synagogues have large collections of shtenders. See also[edit] Ban Ki-moon giving a lecture from a lectern Analogion Dais Lection Lector Podium Pulpit Notes and references[edit] ^ Lectern, Chambers's Cyclopaedia, Vol. VI W. and R. Chambers, 1864; pp. 71-72. ^ D. C. Gilman, H. T. Peck and F. M. Colby (eds), Lectern, The New International Cyclopaedia, Vol. XII, Dodd, Mead and Co., 1905; p. 68. ^ Domestic News: New York, The Reform Advocate, Vol LV, No. 7, September 18, 1920; p. 181. ^ How to read a church, Richard Taylor, London 2003, ISBN 1-84413-053-3 ^ George Ferguson, Signs and Symbols in Christian Art, New York 1966 ^ "Jewish English Lexicon" ^ Samuel C. Heilman, The People of the Book, University of Chicago Press, 1983, Transaction Publishers, 2009; see Chapter 1, page 3. ^ Hanoch Teller, Sunset, Feldheim Publishers, 1987; page 169. External links[edit] Media related to Lecterns at Wikimedia Commons Herbermann, Charles, ed. (1913). "Lectern" . Catholic Encyclopedia. New York: Robert Appleton Company. Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Lectern&oldid=905190263" Categories: Academia Pulpits Hidden categories: Articles containing Hebrew-language text Articles containing Yiddish-language text Commons category link is on Wikidata Articles incorporating a citation from the 1913 Catholic Encyclopedia with Wikisource reference Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Brezhoneg Čeština Cymraeg Deutsch Español Esperanto Euskara Français עברית Nederlands 日本語 Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Polski Português Simple English Suomi Svenska Українська Edit links This page was last edited on 7 July 2019, at 13:57 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view