https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Washington_University_in_St._Louis
Washington University in St. Louis - Wikipedia
Washington University in St. Louis From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Not to be confused with University of Washington, Washington State University, Washington College, or George Washington University. University in St. Louis, Missouri, United States Washington University in St. Louis Latin: Universitas Washingtoniana Motto Per veritatem vis (Latin) Motto in English Strength through truth Type Private Established February 22, 1853 (1853-02-22) Academic affiliations AAU COFHE MISA NAICU ORAU URA Endowment $7.95 billion (2019)[1] Chancellor Andrew D. Martin Provost Beverly Wendland Academic staff 3,819 (2018)[2] Administrative staff 12,609 (2018)[2] Students 15,045[3] Undergraduates 7,599[3] Postgraduates 7,446[3] Location Greater St. Louis , Missouri , United States 38°38′53″N 90°18′18″W﻿ / ﻿38.648°N 90.305°W﻿ / 38.648; -90.305Coordinates: 38°38′53″N 90°18′18″W﻿ / ﻿38.648°N 90.305°W﻿ / 38.648; -90.305 Campus Urban 346.5 acres (0.54 sq mi; 140.22 ha) 1,966.5 acres (3.07 sq mi; 795.81 ha) at Tyson Research Center[4][5] Colors Red and green[6] Nickname Bears Sporting affiliations NCAA Division III – UAA Website wustl.edu Washington University in St. Louis (WashU, or WUSTL) is a private research university in Greater St. Louis with its main campus (Danforth) mostly in unincorporated St. Louis County, Missouri and Clayton, Missouri. It also has a West Campus in Clayton, North Campus in the West End neighborhood of St. Louis, Missouri, and Medical Campus in the Central West End neighborhood of St. Louis, Missouri.[7] Founded in 1853, and named after George Washington, the university has students and faculty from all 50 U.S. states and more than 120 countries.[8] As of 2019, 24 Nobel laureates in economics, physiology and medicine, chemistry, and physics have been affiliated with Washington University, nine having done the major part of their pioneering research at the university.[9] In 2019, Clarivate Analytics ranked Washington University 7th in the world for most cited researchers.[10] Washington University is made up of seven graduate and undergraduate schools that encompass a broad range of academic fields.[11] To prevent confusion over its location, the Board of Trustees added the phrase "in St. Louis" in 1976.[12] Washington University is a member of the Association of American Universities.[13] Washington University received the 4th highest amount of NIH medical research grants among medical schools in 2019.[14][15] The university was ranked as tied for 1st in the United States for genetics and genomics alongside Stanford and MIT by U.S. News & World Report in 2018.[16] Contents 1 History 1.1 Early history (1853–1900) 1.2 Modern era (1900–1955) 1.3 Recent history (1955–present) 1.4 U.S. presidential and vice-presidential debates 2 Rankings and reputation 3 Geography and campuses 3.1 Danforth Campus 3.2 Medical Campus 3.3 North and West Campuses 3.4 Tyson Research Center 4 Academics 4.1 Arts and Sciences 4.2 Business 4.3 School of Design and Visual Arts 4.4 McKelvey School of Engineering 4.5 School of Law 4.6 Medicine 4.7 Social Work and Public Health 4.8 Former dental school 5 Museums and library system 6 Research, research centers, and institutes 7 Campus life 7.1 Student organizations 7.2 Greek life 7.3 Residences 7.4 Student media 7.5 Athletics 7.6 Traditions 8 Alumni 9 References 10 External links History[edit] Early history (1853–1900)[edit] This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Washington University in St. Louis" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (April 2020) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Washington University was conceived by 17 St. Louis business, political, and religious leaders concerned by the lack of institutions of higher learning in the Midwest. Missouri State Senator Wayman Crow and Unitarian minister William Greenleaf Eliot, grandfather of the poet T.S. Eliot, led the effort. The university's first chancellor was Joseph Gibson Hoyt. Crow secured the university charter from the Missouri General Assembly in 1853, and Eliot was named President of the Board of Trustees. Early on, Eliot solicited support from members of the local business community, including John O'Fallon, but Eliot failed to secure a permanent endowment. Washington University is unusual among major American universities in not having had a prior financial endowment. The institution had no backing of a religious organization, single wealthy patron, or earmarked government support. William Greenleaf Eliot, first president of the Board of Trustees During the three years following its inception, the university bore three different names. The board first approved "Eliot Seminary," but William Eliot was uncomfortable with naming a university after himself and objected to the establishment of a seminary, which would implicitly be charged with teaching a religious faith. He favored a nonsectarian university.[17] In 1854, the Board of Trustees changed the name to "Washington Institute" in honor of George Washington, and because the charter was coincidentally passed on Washington’s birthday, February 22.[18] Naming the university after the nation's first president, only seven years before the American Civil War and during a time of bitter national division, was no coincidence. During this time of conflict, Americans universally admired George Washington as the father of the United States and a symbol of national unity. The Board of Trustees believed that the university should be a force of unity in a strongly divided Missouri. In 1856, the university amended its name to "Washington University." The university amended its name once more in 1976, when the Board of Trustees voted to add the suffix "in St. Louis" to distinguish the university from the over two dozen other universities bearing Washington's name.[12] Robert S. Brookings Although chartered as a university, for many years Washington University functioned primarily as a night school located on 17th Street and Washington Avenue in the heart of downtown St. Louis. Owing to limited financial resources, Washington University initially used public buildings. Classes began on October 22, 1854, at the Benton School building. At first the university paid for the evening classes, but as their popularity grew, their funding was transferred to the St. Louis Public Schools.[19] Eventually the board secured funds for the construction of Academic Hall and a half dozen other buildings. Later the university divided into three departments: the Manual Training School, Smith Academy, and the Mary Institute. In 1867, the university opened the first private nonsectarian law school west of the Mississippi River. By 1882, Washington University had expanded to numerous departments, which were housed in various buildings across St. Louis. Medical classes were first held at Washington University in 1891 after the St. Louis Medical College decided to affiliate with the university, establishing the School of Medicine. During the 1890s, Robert Sommers Brookings, the president of the Board of Trustees, undertook the tasks of reorganizing the university's finances, putting them onto a sound foundation, and buying land for a new campus. In 1896, Holmes Smith, professor of Drawing and History of Art, designed what would become the basis for the modern day university seal. The seal is made up of elements from the Washington family coat of arms, and the symbol of Louis IX, whom the city is named after.[20] Modern era (1900–1955)[edit] The Washington University crest at the entrance to Francis Field Washington University spent its first half century in downtown St. Louis bounded by Washington Ave., Lucas Place, and Locust Street. By the 1890s, owing to the dramatic expansion of the Manual School and a new benefactor in Robert Brookings, the university began to move west. The university board of directors began a process to find suitable ground and hired the landscape architecture firm Olmsted, Olmsted & Eliot of Boston. A committee of Robert S. Brookings, Henry Ware Eliot, and William Huse found a site of 103 acres (41.7 ha) just beyond Forest Park, located west of the city limits in St. Louis County. The elevation of the land was thought to resemble the Acropolis and inspired the nickname of "Hilltop" campus, renamed the Danforth campus in 2006 to honor former chancellor William H. Danforth.[21] Brookings Hall during the 1904 World's Fair In 1899, the university opened a national design contest for the new campus. The renowned Philadelphia firm Cope & Stewardson (same architects who designed a large part of University of Pennsylvania and Princeton University) won unanimously with its plan for a row of Collegiate Gothic quadrangles inspired by Oxford and Cambridge Universities.[22] The cornerstone of the first building, Busch Hall, was laid on October 20, 1900. The construction of Brookings Hall, Ridgley, and Cupples began shortly thereafter. The school delayed occupying these buildings until 1905 to accommodate the 1904 World's Fair and Olympics. The delay allowed the university to construct ten buildings instead of the seven originally planned. This original cluster of buildings set a precedent for the development of the Danforth Campus; Cope & Stewardson's original plan and its choice of building materials have, with few exceptions, guided the construction and expansion of the Danforth Campus to the present day.[22] By 1915, construction of a new medical complex was completed on Kingshighway in what is now St. Louis's Central West End. Three years later, Washington University admitted its first women medical students.[23] In 1922, a young physics professor, Arthur Holly Compton, conducted a series of experiments in the basement of Eads Hall that demonstrated the "particle" concept of electromagnetic radiation. Compton's discovery, known as the "Compton Effect," earned him the Nobel Prize in physics in 1927.[24] During World War II, as part of the Manhattan Project, a cyclotron at Washington University was used to produce small quantities of the newly discovered element plutonium via neutron bombardment of uranium nitrate hexahydrate. The plutonium produced there in 1942 was shipped to the Metallurgical Laboratory Compton had established at the University of Chicago where Glenn Seaborg's team used it for extraction, purification, and characterization studies of the exotic substance.[24][25] Graham Chapel After working for many years at the University of Chicago, Arthur Holly Compton returned to St. Louis in 1946 to serve as Washington University's ninth chancellor. Compton reestablished the Washington University football team, making the declaration that athletics were to be henceforth played on a "strictly amateur" basis with no athletic scholarships. Under Compton's leadership, enrollment at the university grew dramatically, fueled primarily by World War II veterans' use of their GI Bill benefits.[26] In 1947, Gerty Cori, a professor at the School of Medicine, became the first woman to win a Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine. Professors Carl and Gerty Cori became Washington University's fifth and sixth Nobel laureates for their discovery of how glycogen is broken down and resynthesized in the body.[27] The process of desegregation at Washington University began in 1947 with the School of Medicine and the School of Social Work.[28] During the mid and late 1940s, the university was the target of critical editorials in the local African American press, letter-writing campaigns by churches and the local Urban League, and legal briefs by the NAACP intended to strip its tax-exempt status. In spring 1949, a Washington University student group, the Student Committee for the Admission of Negroes (SCAN), began campaigning for full racial integration. In May 1952, the Board of Trustees passed a resolution desegregating the school's undergraduate divisions.[29] Recent history (1955–present)[edit] Brookings Hall Quad During the latter half of the 20th century, Washington University transitioned from a strong regional university to a national research institution. In 1957, planning began for the construction of the "South 40," a complex of modern residential halls which primarily house Freshmen and some Sophomore students.[30] With the additional on-campus housing, Washington University, which had been predominantly a "streetcar college" of commuter students, began to attract a more national pool of applicants.[31] By 1964, over two-thirds of incoming students came from outside the St. Louis area.[32] In 1971, the Board of Trustees appointed Chancellor William Henry Danforth, who guided the university through the social and financial crises of the 1970s and strengthened the university's often strained relationship with the St. Louis community. During his 24-year chancellorship, Danforth significantly improved the School of Medicine, established 70 new faculty chairs, secured a $1.72 billion endowment, and tripled the amount of student scholarships.[33] In 1995, Mark S. Wrighton, former Provost at MIT, was elected the university's 14th chancellor. During Chancellor Wrighton's tenure undergraduate applications to Washington University have more than doubled. Since 1995, the university has added more than 190 endowed professorships, revamped its Arts & Sciences curriculum, and completed more than 30 new buildings.[34] Danforth Campus Buildings The growth of Washington University's reputation has coincided with a series of record-breaking fund-raising efforts during the last three decades. From 1983 to 1987, the "Alliance for Washington University" campaign raised $630.5 million, which was then the most successful fund-raising effort in national history.[35] From 1998 to 2004, the "Campaign for Washington University" raised $1.55 billion, which has been applied to additional scholarships, professorships, and research initiatives.[36] In 2002, Washington University co-founded the Cortex Innovation Community in St. Louis's Midtown neighborhood. Cortex is the largest innovation hub in the midwest, home to offices of Square, Microsoft, Aon, Boeing, and Centene. The innovation hub has generated more than 3,800 tech jobs in 14 years.[37][38] In 2005, Washington University founded the McDonnell International Scholars Academy, an international network of premier research universities, with an initial endowment gift of $10 million from John F. McDonnell.[39][40] The academy, which selects scholars from 35 partner universities around the world, was created with the intent to develop a cohort of future leaders, strengthen ties with top foreign universities, and promote global awareness and social responsibility.[41][42] In 2019, Washington University unveiled a $360 million campus transformation project known as the "East End Transformation". The transformation project, built on the original 1895 campus plan by Olmsted, Olmsted & Eliot, encompassed 18 acres of the Danforth Campus, adding five new buildings, expanding the university's Mildred Lane Kemper Art Museum, relocating hundreds of surface parking spaces underground, and creating an expansive new park.[43] In June 2019, Andrew D. Martin, former dean of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts at the University of Michigan, was elected the university's 15th chancellor.[44] On the day of his inauguration, Chancellor Martin announced the "WashU Pledge", a financial aid program allowing full-time Missouri and southern Illinois students who are Pell Grant-eligible or from families with annual incomes of $75,000 or less to attend the university cost-free.[45] U.S. presidential and vice-presidential debates[edit] 2008 Vice Presidential Debate at the Washington University Field House Washington University has been selected by the Commission on Presidential Debates to host more presidential and vice-presidential debates than any other institution in history.[46] United States presidential election debates were held at the Washington University Athletic Complex in 1992, 2000, 2004, and 2016. A presidential debate was planned to occur in 1996, but owing to scheduling difficulties between the candidates, the debate was canceled.[47] The university hosted the only 2008 vice presidential debate, between Republican Sarah Palin and Democrat Joe Biden, on October 2, 2008, also at the Washington University Athletic Complex. The university hosted the second 2016 presidential debate, between Republican Party candidate Donald Trump and Democratic Party candidate Hillary Clinton, on October 9, 2016. Although Chancellor Wrighton had noted after the 2004 debate that it would be "improbable" that the university will host another debate and was not eager to commit to the possibility,[48] he subsequently changed his view and the university submitted a bid for the 2008 debates. "These one-of-a-kind events are great experiences for our students, they contribute to a national understanding of important issues, and they allow us to help bring national and international attention to the St. Louis region as one of America's great metropolitan areas," said Wrighton.[49] The university has decided not to host a 2020 presidential debate, against the majority opinion of the student body.[50] Rankings and reputation[edit] University rankings National ARWU[51] 18 Forbes[52] 31 Times/WSJ[53] 19 U.S. News & World Report[54] 19 Washington Monthly[55] 59 Global ARWU[56] 22 QS[57] 108 Times[58] 52 U.S. News & World Report[59] 31 Seigle Hall, shared by the School of Law and the College of Arts and Sciences Washington University's undergraduate program is ranked 19th in the nation in the 2020 U.S. News & World Report National Universities ranking,[60] and 11th by The Wall Street Journal in their 2018 rankings.[61] The university is ranked 22nd in the world for 2019 by the Academic Ranking of World Universities.[62] Undergraduate admission to Washington University is characterized by the Carnegie Foundation and U.S. News & World Report as "most selective".[63] The Princeton Review, in its 2020 edition, gave the university an admissions selectivity rating of 98 out of 99.[64] The acceptance rate for the class of 2024 (those entering in the fall of 2020) was 12.8%, with students selected from more than 27,900 applications. Of students admitted, 92 percent were in the top 10 percent of their class.[65] Eads Hall The Princeton Review ranked Washington University 1st for "best college dorms", and 3rd for "best college food", "best-run colleges", and "best financial aid" in its 2020 edition.[66] Niche ranked the university as the #1 best college for architecture, and #2 best college campus in the United States in 2020.[67] The Washington University School of Medicine was ranked 6th for research by U.S. News & World Report in 2020 and has been listed among the top ten medical schools since rankings were first published in 1987.[68] Additionally, U.S. News & World Report ranked the university's genetics and physical therapy as tied for first place.[69][70] QS World University Rankings ranked Washington University 6th in the world for anatomy and physiology in 2020.[71] In January 2020, Olin Business School was named the Poets&Quants MBA Program of 2019.[72] Washington University has also been recognized as the 12th best university employer in the country by Forbes.[73] Washington University was named by Newsweek as one of the "25 New Ivies"[74] and has also been named as a "Hidden Ivy".[75] Ridgley Hall A 2014 study found that Washington University ranked #1 in the country for income inequality,[76] when measured as the ratio of number of students from the top 1% of the income scale to number of students from the bottom 60% of the income scale. About 22% of Washington University's students came from the top 1%, while only about 6% came from the bottom 60%.[77] In 2015, university administration announced plans to increase the number of Pell eligible recipients on campus,[78] and in 2019, 15% of its student body was eligible for Pell Grants.[79] In October 2019, then newly inaugurated Chancellor Andrew D. Martin announced the "WashU Pledge", a financial aid program that provides a free undergraduate education to all full-time Missouri and Southern Illinois students who are Pell Grant-eligible or from families with annual incomes of $75,000 or less.[45] School Rankings Ranking # U.S. News & World Report (Medicine) 6[80] U.S. News & World Report (Law) 17[81] U.S. News & World Report (MBA) 30[82] U.S. News & World Report (Social Work) 2[83] BusinessWeek (BSBA) 25[84] Design Intelligence (Architecture) 10[85] Financial Times (EMBA – World Rank) 8[86] Geography and campuses[edit] Danforth Campus[edit] Bryan Hall Main article: Danforth Campus The main, or Danforth Campus (formerly known as the Hilltop Campus) is mostly between Forest Park Parkway, Wydown Boulevard, North Big Bend Boulevard, and North Skinker Boulevard. Although the school includes "St. Louis" in its name, the majority of the school's main campus (including Brookings Hall) is located in unincorporated St. Louis County and suburban Clayton. Danforth Campus includes Edison Theater Mildred Lane Kemper Art Museum The Teaching Center In 2019, a $360 million renovation project, the "East End Transformation", was unveiled on the Danforth Campus, building on the original 1895 campus plan by Olmsted, Olmsted & Eliot. The project included the creation of the Gary M. Sumers Welcome Center, which now houses undergraduate admissions; the Craig and Nancy Schnuck Pavilion, which houses a café, the Environmental Studies program and the Office of Sustainability; the Henry A. and Elvira H. Jubel Hall, which houses the Department of Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science in the McKelvey School of Engineering; and the James M. McKelvey, Sr. Hall, which will be completed in 2020 and open in 2021 and will house the McKelvey School of Engineering's Department of Computer Science & Engineering. All new buildings on the east end have been designed to achieve LEED-Gold certification, and include solar panels located on many of the roofs to generate renewable electricity. In addition to the five new buildings, the project relocated 6 acres of parking lots underground, renovated and expanded the Mildred Lane Kemper Art Museum, and created the Ann and Andrew Tisch Park.[43] In 2020, the Princeton Review ranked the Danforth Campus among the top 10 "Most Beautiful Campuses" in the United States.[87] Medical Campus[edit] The Washington University Medical Center as seen from Forest Park Washington University Medical Center comprises 164 acres (66.4 ha) spread over approximately 12 city blocks, located along the eastern edge of Forest Park within the Central West End neighborhood of St. Louis. The campus is home to the Washington University School of Medicine and its associated teaching hospitals, Barnes-Jewish Hospital and St. Louis Children's Hospital. Many of the buildings are connected via a series of skyways and corridors. The School's 2,100 employed and volunteer faculty physicians also serve as the medical staff of Barnes-Jewish and St. Louis Children's hospitals, which are part of BJC HealthCare. Washington University and BJC have taken on many joint venture projects, such as the Center for Advanced Medicine, completed in December 2001. BJC Institute of Health at Washington University is the newest research building with 680,000 square feet (63,000 m2). In 2020, Washington University announced the construction of a new $616 million, 11 story, 609,000-square-foot neuroscience research building which will sit at the eastern edge of the Medical Campus in the Cortex Innovation Community. Construction of the building is set to be finished in 2023.[88] Olin Residence Hall, named for Spencer T. Olin, provides residential services for 200 medical and graduate students.[89] The Medical Campus is accessible via the Central West End MetroLink station, which provides a quick link to the Danforth, North, and West Campuses. All full-time Washington University students and employees are eligible for a Metro Transit U-Pass, which allows students to use the MetroLink and Metro buses for free.[90] Medical Campus Includes: Barnes-Jewish Hospital Mallinckrodt Institute of Radiology Central Institute for the Deaf St. Louis Children's Hospital Alvin J. Siteman Cancer Center Rehabilitation Institute of St. Louis Center for Advanced Medicine Women & Infants Center Eric P. Newman Education Center (conference and convention center) North and West Campuses[edit] Washington University's North Campus and West Campus principally house administrative functions that are not student focused. North Campus lies in St. Louis City near the Delmar Loop. The university acquired the building and adjacent property in 2004, formerly home to the Angelica Uniform Factory.[91] Several university administrative departments are located at the North Campus location, including offices for Quadrangle Housing, Accounting and Treasury Services, Parking and Transportation Services, Army ROTC, and Network Technology Services. The North Campus location also provides off-site storage space for the Performing arts Department. Renovations are still ongoing; recent additions to the North Campus space include a small eatery operated by Bon Appétit Management Company, the university's on-campus food provider, completed during spring semester 2007, as well as the Family Learning Center, operated by Bright Horizons and opened in September 2010. The West Campus is located about one mile (1.6 km) to the west of the Danforth Campus in Clayton, Missouri, and primarily consists of a four-story former department store building housing mostly administrative space. The West Campus building was home to the Clayton branch of the Famous-Barr department store until 1990, when the university acquired the property and adjacent parking and began a series of renovations.[92] Today, the basement level houses the West Campus Library, the University Archives, the Modern Graphic History Library, and conference space. The ground level still remains a retail space. The upper floors house consolidated capital gifts, portions of alumni and development, and information systems offices from across the Danforth and Medical School campuses. There is also a music rehearsal room on the second floor. Both the North and West Campuses are accessible by the St. Louis MetroLink, which, with the Delmar Loop and Forsyth MetroLink Stations directly adjacent to these campuses, provides easy travel around the St. Louis metropolitan area, including all of Washington University's campuses. Tyson Research Center[edit] Main article: Tyson Research Center Tyson Research Center is a 1,966.5 acres (3.07 sq mi; 795.81 ha) field station located west of St. Louis on the Meramec River. Washington University obtained Tyson as surplus property from the federal government in 1963. It is used by the university as a biological field station and research/education center. In 2010 the Living Learning Center was named one of the first two buildings accredited nationwide as a "living building" under the Living Building Challenge,[93] opened to serve as a biological research station and classroom for summer students. Academics[edit] College/School founding College/School Year founded College of Arts & Sciences 1853 School of Engineering 1854 School of Law 1867 College of Art 1879 School of Medicine 1891 College of Architecture 1910 Olin Business School 1917 Graduate School of Arts & Sciences 1922 George Warren Brown School of Social Work 1925 University College 1931 Sam Fox School of Design & Visual Arts 2005 Arts and Sciences[edit] Main article: Arts and Sciences at Washington University in St. Louis Holmes Lounge, the central reading room on campus, where students may study Arts & Sciences at Washington University comprises three divisions: the College of Arts & Sciences, the Graduate School of Arts & Sciences, and University College in Arts & Sciences. Barbara Schaal is Dean of the Faculty of Arts & Sciences. Richard J. Smith is Dean of the Graduate School of Arts & Sciences. The College of Arts & Sciences is the central undergraduate unit of the university with 330 tenured and tenure-track faculty along with over 100 research scientists, lecturers, artists in residence, and visitors serving more than 3,700 undergraduates in 40 academic departments divided into divisions of Humanities, Social sciences, and Natural sciences and Mathematics. The College of Arts & Sciences has an average class size of 18 students, with over 80% having fewer than 24. Almost one-half of the undergraduate classes have fewer than 10 students. The student-faculty ratio is 7:1.[94] The Graduate School serves over 6,000 students pursuing Master's and PhD degrees. [1] Nationally ranked PhD programs include: Psychology, English, History, Mathematics, Economics, Political Science, Physics, Earth Science, Chemistry and Education. University College grants both graduate and undergraduate degrees, offering courses primarily in the evenings for adult and continuing education. The College of Arts & Sciences offers courses in over a dozen languages, including Arabic, Hebrew, Spanish, German, French, Swahili, Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Russian, Greek, Italian, Hindi, Portuguese, and Latin. University College in Arts & Sciences also offers course work in Swedish, Vietnamese, Irish, and Czech. Business[edit] Main article: Olin Business School The Knight Executive Education Center is a part of the Olin Business School. Founded as the School of Commerce and Finance in 1917, the Olin Business School was named after entrepreneur John M. Olin in 1988. The school's academic programs include BSBA, MBA, Professional MBA (PMBA), Executive MBA (EMBA), MS in Finance, MS in Supply Chain Management, MS in Customer Analytics, Master of Accounting, Global Master of Finance Dual Degree program, and Doctorate programs, as well as non-degree Executive Education. In 2002, an Executive MBA program was established in Shanghai, in cooperation with Fudan University. Olin has a network of more than 16,000 alumni worldwide.[95] Over the last several years, the school's endowment has increased to $213 million (2004) and annual gifts average $12 million per year.[96][citation needed] Simon Hall was opened in 1986 after a donation from John E. Simon. On May 2, 2014, the $90 million conjoined Knight and Bauer Halls were dedicated, following a $15 million gift from Charles F. Knight and Joanne Knight and a $10 million gift from George and Carol Bauer through the Bauer Foundation. In January 2020, Olin was named the Poets&Quants MBA Program of 2019.[72] Undergraduate BSBA students take 40–60% of their courses within the business school and are able to formally declare majors in eight areas: accounting, entrepreneurship, finance, healthcare management, marketing, managerial economics and strategy, organization and human resources, International Business, and operations and supply chain management. Graduate students are able to pursue an MBA either full-time or part-time. Students may also take elective courses from other disciplines at Washington University, including law and many other fields. Mark P. Taylor is the Dean of the Olin Business School. School of Design and Visual Arts[edit] Main article: Sam Fox School of Design & Visual Arts The Mildred Lane Kemper Art Museum The Sam Fox School of Design & Visual Arts was created in 2005 by merging the existing Colleges of Art and Architecture. The School comprises: College of Architecture Graduate School of Architecture & Urban Design College of Art Graduate School of Art Mildred Lane Kemper Art Museum, considered one of the most distinguished university art collections in the country[97][citation needed] Architecture offers BS and BA degrees as well as MArch and MUD. There is a combined six-year BS and MArch degree program as well as joint MArch programs with most of the other schools in the university. The Graduate School of Architecture and Urban design was ranked 5th in the nation by the journal DesignIntelligence in its 2008 edition of "America's Best Architecture & Design Schools." Art offers the BFA and MFA in Art in the context of a full university environment. Students take courses in the College of Arts & Sciences as well as courses in the College of Art to provide a well rounded background. One third of students in the school pursue a combined study degree program, second major, and/or minors in other undergraduate divisions at Washington University.[98][citation needed] U.S. News & World Report ranked the MFA program 13th in the nation in 2012.[99] In October 2006 the Mildred Lane Kemper Art Museum moved into new facilities designed by Pritzker Prize-winning architect, and former faculty member, Fumihiko Maki.[100] Carmon Colangelo is the dean of the Sam Fox School of Design & Visual Arts. Bruce Lindsey is dean of the College of Architecture and the Graduate School of Architecture & Urban Design. Franklin Spector is the dean of the College and Graduate School of Art. McKelvey School of Engineering[edit] Main article: McKelvey School of Engineering Cupples Hall The McKelvey School of Engineering at Washington University in St. Louis (WashU Engineering) is a school with 88 tenured and tenure-track professors, 40 additional full-time faculty, 1,300 undergraduate students, 560 master's students, 380 PhD students, and more than 20,000 alumni. Aaron Bobick serves as dean of the school. With approximately $27 million in annual research awards, the school focuses intellectual efforts on medicine and health, energy and environment, entrepreneurship, and security. The school is ranked among the top 50 by the magazine U.S. News & World Report, and the biomedical engineering graduate program was ranked 12th by U.S. News & World Report in 2012–2013. On January 31, 2019, the School of Engineering & Applied Science was renamed the James McKelvey School of Engineering, in honor of trustee and distinguished alumnus Jim McKelvey Jr., the co-founder of Square, after his donation of an undisclosed sum that the school's dean, Aaron Bobick, said has been the largest in the school's 162-year history. Departments include: Biomedical Engineering Computer Science & Engineering Electrical & Systems Engineering Energy, Environmental & Chemical Engineering Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science School of Law[edit] Main article: Washington University School of Law Anheuser Busch Hall, home to the School of Law Washington University School of Law offers joint-degree programs with the Olin Business School, the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, the School of Medicine, and the School of Social Work. It also offers an LLM in Intellectual Property and Technology Law, an LLM in Taxation, an LLM in US Law for Foreign Lawyers, a Master of Juridical Studies (MJS), and a Juris Scientiae Doctoris (JSD). The law school offers 3 semesters of courses in the Spring, Summer, and Fall, and requires at least 85 hours of coursework for the JD. In the 2021 U.S. News & World Report rankings, the law school ranked 17th nationally.[101] The law school offers a full-time day program, beginning in August, for the J.D. degree. The law school is located in Anheuser-Busch Hall (opened in 1997). Nancy Staudt is the Dean of the School of Law. Medicine[edit] Main article: Washington University School of Medicine Washington University School of Medicine The Washington University School of Medicine was founded in 1891. In the 2021 U.S. News & World Report rankings of U.S. medical schools, it was ranked 6th for research[102] and tied for 31st for primary care.[103] The McDonnell Genome Institute (directed by Richard K. Wilson) is housed within the Washington University School of Medicine; it is one of three NIH-funded major DNA sequencing centers in the U.S. and played a significant role in the Human Genome Project.[104] In 2019, the Washington University School of Medicine was the 4th medical school in the United States that received the most NIH funding.[105] The medical school partners with St. Louis Children's Hospital and Barnes-Jewish Hospital (part of BJC HealthCare), where all physicians are members of the school's faculty. Social Work and Public Health[edit] Main article: George Warren Brown School of Social Work With roots dating back to 1909 in the university's School of Social Economy, the George Warren Brown School of Social Work (commonly called GWB, the Brown School, or Brown) was founded in 1925. Brown's academic degree offerings include a Master of Social Work (MSW), a Master of Public Health (MPH), a PhD in Social Work, and a PhD in Public Health Sciences. It is currently ranked first among Master of Social Work programs in the United States.[106] The school was endowed by Bettie Bofinger Brown and named for her husband, George Warren Brown, a St. Louis philanthropist and co-founder of the Brown Shoe Company. The school was the first in the country to have a building for the purpose of social work education, and it is also a founding member of the Association of Schools and Programs of Public Health. Former dental school[edit] Founded as the Missouri Dental College in 1866, the Washington University School of Dental Medicine was the first dental school west of the Mississippi River and the sixth dental school in the U.S. The school closed in 1991.[107] Museums and library system[edit] Main article: Washington University Libraries With 14 libraries, the Washington University library system is the largest in the state of Missouri, containing over 4.2 million volumes.[108] The main library, Olin Library, is centrally located on the Danforth Campus. In 2020, the Princeton Review ranked the Olin Library among the top 10 "Best College Libraries" in the United States.[109] Other libraries in the system include: Olin Library Kranzberg Art & Architecture Library Business Library Chemistry Library East Asian Library Law Library Medical Library (Becker) Music Library Physics Library Social Work Library Special Collections & Archives West Campus Library Reading room in Anheuser-Busch Hall The Mildred Lane Kemper Art Museum, established in 1881, is one of the oldest teaching museums in the country. The collection includes works from 19th-, 20th-, and 21st-century American and European artists, including George Caleb Bingham, Thomas Cole, Pablo Picasso, Max Ernst, Alexander Calder, Jackson Pollock, Rembrandt, Robert Rauschenberg, Barbara Kruger, and Christian Boltanski. Also in the complex is the 3,000 sq ft (300 m2) Newman Money Museum exhibiting the collection of American numismatist Eric P. Newman. In October 2006, the Kemper Art Museum moved from its previous location, Steinberg Hall, into a new facility designed by former faculty member Fumihiko Maki. The new Kemper Art Museum is located directly across from Steinberg Hall, which was Maki's first commission in 1959. Research, research centers, and institutes[edit] Main article: Centers and institutes of Washington University in St. Louis Virtually all faculty members at Washington University engage in academic research,[110][citation needed] offering opportunities for both undergraduate and graduate students across the university's seven schools. Known for its interdisciplinarity and departmental collaboration, many of Washington University's research centers and institutes are collaborative efforts between many areas on campus.[111][citation needed] More than 60% of undergraduates are involved in faculty research across all areas;[112] it is an institutional priority for undergraduates to be allowed to participate in advanced research. According to the Center for Measuring University Performance, it is considered to be one of the top 10 private research universities in the nation.[113] A dedicated Office of Undergraduate Research is located on the Danforth Campus and serves as a resource to post research opportunities, advise students in finding appropriate positions matching their interests, publish undergraduate research journals, and award research grants to make it financially possible to perform research.[114] Brown Hall During fiscal year 2007, $537.5 million was received in total research support, including $444 million in federal obligations. The university has over 150 National Institutes of Health funded inventions, with many of them licensed to private companies. Governmental agencies and non-profit foundations such as the NIH, United States Department of Defense, National Science Foundation, and NASA provide the majority of research grant funding, with Washington University being one of the top recipients in NIH grants from year-to-year. Nearly 80% of NIH grants to institutions in the state of Missouri went to Washington University alone in 2007.[115] Washington University and its Medical School play a large part in the Human Genome Project, where it contributes approximately 25% of the finished sequence.[116] The Genome Sequencing Center has decoded the genome of many animals, plants, and cellular organisms, including the platypus, chimpanzee, cat, and corn.[117] NASA hosts its Planetary Data System Geosciences Node on the campus of Washington University. Professors, students, and researchers have been very involved with many unmanned missions to Mars. Professor Raymond Arvidson has been deputy principal investigator of the Mars Exploration Rover mission and co-investigator of the Phoenix lander robotic arm.[118] Washington University professor Joseph Lowenstein, with the assistance of several undergraduate students, has been involved in editing, annotating, making a digital archive of the first publication of poet Edmund Spenser's collective works in 100 years. A large grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities has been given to support this ambitious project centralized at Washington University with support from other colleges in the United States.[119] In 2019, Folding@Home, a distributed computing project for performing molecular dynamics simulations of protein dynamics, was moved to Washington University School of Medicine from Stanford University. The project, currently led by Dr. Greg Bowman, uses the idle CPU time of personal computers owned by volunteers to conduct protein folding research.[120] Folding@home's research is primarily focused on biomedical problems such as Alzheimer's disease, Cancer, Coronavirus disease 2019, and Ebola virus disease. In early 2020, following heightened interest in the project as a result of the 2019–20 coronavirus pandemic, more than 1 million volunteers were recorded.[121] In April 2020, Folding@home became the world's first exaFLOP computing system with a peak performance of 1.5 exaflops, making it more than seven times faster than the world's fastest supercomputer, Summit, and more powerful than the top 100 supercomputers in the world, combined.[122][123] Campus life[edit] Main article: Campus life at Washington University in St. Louis Student organizations[edit] Women's Building Washington University has over 300 undergraduate student organizations on campus.[124] Most are funded by the Washington University Student Union, which, as of fiscal year 2020, has an annual budget of $3.6[125] million that is completely student-controlled and is one of the largest student government budgets in the country. Known as SU for short, the Student Union sponsors large-scale campus programs including WILD (a semesterly concert in the quad) and free copies of the New York Times, USA Today, and the St. Louis Post-Dispatch through The Collegiate Readership Program; it also funds the campus television station, WUTV, and the radio station, KWUR. KWUR was named best radio station in St. Louis of 2003 by the Riverfront Times despite the fact that its signal reaches only a few blocks beyond the boundaries of the campus.[126] There are 11 fraternities and 9 sororities, with approximately 35% of the student body being involved in Greek life. The Congress of the South 40 (CS40) is a Residential Life and Events Programming Board, which operates outside of the SU sphere. CS40's funding comes from the Housing Activities Fee of each student living on the South 40. Many of these organizations and other campus life amenities are housed in the $43 million Danforth University Center on the Danforth Campus, also dedicated in honor of the Danforth family.[127] The building opened on August 11, 2008 and earned LEED Gold certification for its environmentally friendly design.[128] McMillan Hall Washington University has a large number of student-run musical groups on campus, including 12 official a cappella groups. The Pikers, an all-male group, is the oldest such group on campus. The Greenleafs, an all-female group is the oldest (and only) female group on campus. The Mosaic Whispers, founded in 1991, is the oldest co-ed group on campus. They have produced 9 albums and have appeared on a number of compilation albums, including Ben Folds' Ben Folds Presents: University A Cappella! The Amateurs,[129] who also appeared on this album, is another co-ed a cappella group on campus, founded in 1991. They have recorded seven albums and toured extensively. After Dark[130] is a co-ed a cappella group founded in 2001. It has released three albums and has won several Contemporary A Capella Recording (CARA) awards. In 2008 the group performed on MSNBC during coverage of the vice presidential debate with specially written songs about Joe Biden and Sarah Palin.[131] The Ghost Lights, founded in 2010, is the campus's newest and only Broadway, Movies, and Television soundtrack group. They have performed multiple philanthropic concerts in the greater St. Louis area and were honored in November 2010 with the opportunity to perform for Nobel Laureate Douglass North at his birthday celebration. More Fools than Wise is a chamber jazz group, and The Aristocats feature Disney songs. The campus newspaper is Student Life. The paper is published twice a week under the auspices of Washington University Student Media, Inc., an independent not-for-profit organization incorporated in 1999. The paper was first founded in 1878, making it one of the oldest student newspapers in the country. Washington University also boasts a successful bridge team, and in fact has the second largest bridge club of all colleges in the country.[citation needed] The campus political/entertainment talk radio podcast is WURD, which streams for free on iTunes.[citation needed] Greek life[edit] Fraternity Buildings Washington University has eleven fraternities and nine sororities on campus. Approximately 45% of women and 30% of men participate in Greek life, totaling 35% of the student body.[citation needed] In 2012, the chapter of Sigma Alpha Mu was closed following violations of drug and alcohol policies among students.[132] Washington University Interfraternity Council Alpha Delta Phi Alpha Epsilon Pi Beta Theta Pi Kappa Sigma Sigma Alpha Epsilon Sigma Chi Sigma Nu Sigma Phi Epsilon Tau Kappa Epsilon Theta Xi Zeta Beta Tau Washington University Panhellenic Council Alpha Epsilon Phi Alpha Omicron Pi Alpha Phi Chi Omega Delta Gamma Gamma Phi Beta Kappa Delta Kappa Kappa Gamma Pi Beta Phi Residences[edit] The South 40 Washington University is number one on the Princeton Review's "Best College Dorms" list for 2020.[133] Over 50% of undergraduate students live on campus.[134] Most of the residence halls on campus are located on the South 40, named because of its adjacent location on the south side of the Danforth Campus and its size of 40 acres (16 ha). It is the location of all the freshman buildings as well as several sophomore buildings, which are set up in the traditional residential college system. All of the residential halls are co-ed. The dormitories on the South 40 have grown national recognition for their large size and large number of amenities.[30] The South 40 is organized as a pedestrian-friendly environment wherein residences surround a central recreational lawn known as the Swamp. Bear's Den (the largest dining hall on campus), the Habif Health and Wellness Center (Student Health Services), the Residential Life Office, University police Headquarters, various student-owned businesses (e.g. the laundry service, Wash U Wash), and the baseball, softball, and intramural fields are also located on the South 40. Another group of residences, known as the Village, is located in the northwest corner of Danforth Campus. Only open to upperclassmen and January Scholars, the North Side consists of Millbrook Apartments, The Village, Village East on-campus apartments, and all fraternity houses except the Zeta Beta Tau house, which is off campus and located just northwest of the South 40. Sororities at Washington University do not have houses by their own accord. The Village is a group of residences where students who have similar interests or academic goals apply as small groups of 4 to 24, known as BLOCs, to live together in clustered suites along with non-BLOCs. Like the South 40, the residences around the Village also surround a recreational lawn. In addition to South 40 and North Side residence halls, Washington University owns several apartment buildings within walking distance to Danforth Campus, which are open to upperclassmen. Student media[edit] Washington University supports four major student-run media outlets. The university's student newspaper, Student Life, is available for students. KWUR (90.3 FM) serves as the students' official radio station; the station also attracts an audience in the immediately surrounding community due to its eclectic and free-form musical programming. WUTV is the university's closed-circuit television channel. The university's main student-run political publication is the Washington University Political Review (nicknamed "WUPR"), a self-described "multipartisan" monthly magazine. Washington University undergraduates publish two literary and art journals, The Eliot Review and Spires Intercollegiate Arts and Literary Magazine. A variety of other publications also serve the university community, ranging from in-house academic journals to glossy alumni magazines to WUnderground, the student-run satirical newspaper.[135] Athletics[edit] Main article: Washington University Bears Francis Olympic Field during the 1904 St. Louis Olympics Washington University's sports teams are called the Bears. They are members of the National Collegiate Athletic Association and participate in the University Athletic Association at the Division III level. The Bears have won 19 NCAA Division III Championships— one in women's cross country (2011), one in men's tennis (2008), two in men's basketball (2008, 2009), five in women's basketball (1998–2001, 2010),[136] and ten in women's volleyball (1989, 1991–1996, 2003, 2007, 2009)[137] – and 144 UAA titles in 15 different sports.[138] The Athletic Department was headed by John Schael for 34 years, who served as director of athletics in the period 1978–2014. The 2000 Division III Central Region winner of the National Association of Collegiate Directors of Athletics/Continental Airlines Athletics Director of the Year award,[139] Schael helped orchestrate the Bears athletics transformation into one of the top departments in Division III.[139] Schael was succeeded by Josh Whitman, 2014–2016. The department is now led by Anthony J. Azama. Washington University also has an extensive club sports program, with teams ranging from men's volleyball[140] to women's Ultimate Frisbee. The Washington University men's club water polo team has been particularly successful, capturing the Collegiate Water Polo Association Division III Club National Championship title in 2011, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, and 2019.[141][142] Funding for club sports comes from the Student Union budget, as each club is deemed a campus group. Washington University is home of Francis Field, site of the 1904 Summer Olympics. Francis Field is also home of the Washington University football, soccer, and track and field teams. Traditions[edit] Gates at Francis Field WILD – Walk In, Lay Down, the semesterly concert in the Quad which brings in popular musical acts. Thurtene Carnival – The oldest and largest student-run carnival in the nation,[143][144][citation needed] run by Thurtene Honorary.[145] Vertigo – A dance party put on by the Engineering School Council (EnCouncil), featuring an innovative 8-by-16-foot (2.4 by 4.9 m) computer-controlled modular LED illuminated dance floor built by students. Cultural shows – Each year Washington University student groups put on several multicultural shows. Ashoka, the South Asian student association, puts on a performance for Diwali, the Indian festival of lights, that includes a skit and dances. Black Anthology is a student-run performance arts show celebrating black culture. Lunar New Year Festival is a collaboration between the many East and Southeast Asian organizations on campus culminating in a show to celebrate the Asian and Asian American experience with a skit and performances from Vietnamese, Chinese, Japanese, and Korean cultures among others. Africa Week and the African Film Festival are annual events hosted by the African Students Association. Finally, the Association of Latin American Students showcases various forms of Latin and Spanish dances during their performance, Carnaval. Brookings Hall – A superstition among students to never step on the university seal at Brookings Hall. It is said that doing so will prevent one from graduating on time.[146] Convocation – A large gathering for new students and their families intended to welcome them to the university. Among others, it includes speeches from seniors and university leadership.[147] DUC N’ Donuts – Taking place on the first Friday of every month at the Danforth University Center (DUC), this tradition allows students to learn about monthly events while enjoying free coffee and donuts.[146] Art Prom – Every Spring, students from the Sam Fox School of Design and Visual Arts host a “formal” dance with a creative twist.[148] Underpass Panels – A series of panels along the walls of the underpass connecting the South 40 to the main Danforth Campus. Tradition involves the painting of each panel by students and clubs to advertise upcoming events. Located adjacent to the underpass is a large concrete ball, also painted to advertise student events.[149] Alumni[edit] Main article: List of Washington University alumni Washington University counts more than 114,000 living alumni, 29 Rhodes Scholars, and 24 Nobel laureates affiliated with the university as faculty or students.[150][151][152] Notable recent graduates of the college include: Jim McKelvey, co-founder and director of Square, Inc; Avram Glazer, chairman of Manchester United; Jon Feltheimer, CEO of Lionsgate Films; Andrew McCabe, former Deputy Director of the FBI; George Zimmer, founder of Men's Wearhouse; Phil Radford, CEO of Greenpeace; Siniša Mali, Serbian Minister of Finance; former Missouri Senator Jim Talent; Nevada Senator Chic Hecht; former Nebraska Congressman Hal Daub; Pulitzer Prize-winning journalists Ken Cooper and Hank Klibanoff; Leana Wen, former President of Planned Parenthood; actor and director Harold Ramis (Ghostbusters, Caddyshack); baseball player Dal Maxvill; science-show host Deanne Bell (Design Squad). Earlier undergraduate alumni include J. C. R. Licklider, pioneer in artificial intelligence; Charles Nagel, founder of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce; Julian W. Hill, co-inventor of nylon; Clyde Cowan, co-discoverer of the neutrino; James R. Thompson, Governor of Illinois; David R. Francis, Governor of Missouri; William H. Webster, former Director of the FBI and CIA; U.S. Ambassador to Belgium Sam Fox; Edward Singleton Holden, president of the University of California; Thomas Lamb Eliot, founder of Reed College; and Abram L. Sachar, founding president of Brandeis University. Graduates of the College of Architecture include George Hellmuth, Gyo Obata, and George Kassabaum, founders of HOK, the world's fourth-largest architectural firm. The School of Medicine graduated Nobel laureates Earl Sutherland, Edwin Krebs, and Daniel Nathans. Businessman and adventurer Steve Fossett earned his MBA from the business school. Law school graduate, Joseph Poindexter was governor of Hawaii during the Pearl Harbor attack. Doctoral alumni include the former presidents of Johns Hopkins, Clemson, Wake Forest, Morehouse, Mount Union, Yonsei, and Hong Kong University of Science and Technology. An alumnus of the Graduate School of Architecture, C. P. Wang (MArch 1973), designed Taipei 101, the world's second-tallest building. Famous students who dropped out: Charles Eames (who was expelled for defending modernist architecture); actor Peter Sarsgaard (Boys Don't Cry, An Education, Flight Plan); Tennessee Williams (who left in protest at not winning a playwriting prize);[153][154] Enterprise Rent-a-Car founder Jack C. Taylor (who withdrew to fight in World War II); actor Robert Guillaume (who withdrew to study opera); Pulitzer Prize winner and bestselling author Bill Dedman (who left to become a newspaper reporter); and IQ-record holder Marilyn vos Savant (who says she withdrew because she was bored). Jim McKelvey, Co-founder and Director of Square, Inc. Charles Nagel, Founder of the United States Chamber of Commerce Phyllis Schlafly, Conservative activist, founder of the Eagle Forum J. C. R. Licklider, Pioneer in artificial intelligence Peter Sarsgaard, Award-winning actor Clyde Cowan, Co-discoverer of the Neutrino Phoebe Couzins, First woman U.S. Marshal List of Washington University faculty and staff (past and present): economist and Nobel Memorial Prize winner Douglass North; husband and wife biochemists and co-Nobel Prize winners Carl and Gerty Cori; physicist and Nobel Prize winner Arthur Holly Compton; novelists Stanley Elkin and William Gass; poets Carl Phillips and Mary Jo Bang; architect Fumihiko Maki; neurologist and Nobel Prize winner Rita Levi-Montalcini; notable artist Max Beckmann; sex researchers William Masters and Virginia Johnson; Poets Laureate Howard Nemerov and Mona Van Duyn; sociologist and "outlaw Marxist" Alvin Ward Gouldner; attorney, former Counsel to Vice-President Al Gore and former Tennessee Attorney General Charles Burson; writer and culture critic Gerald Early; economist, and former Chair of President Ronald Reagan's Council of Economic Advisors, Murray Weidenbaum; chemist Joseph W. Kennedy, co-discoverer of the element plutonium; computer scientist Jonathan S. Turner, internationally renowned expert in computer networking; computer scientist Raj Jain, pioneer in the field of network congestion; Law Professor Troy A. Paredes, currently on leave as a commissioner of the SEC; sociologist Adia Harvey Wingfield; chemist Holden Thorp, editor-in-chief of Science Magazine, and Law Professor Peter Mutharika, president of Malawi. Arthur Holly Compton, Discoverer of the Compton effect Peter Mutharika, President of Malawi Edward Adelbert Doisy, Discoverer of Vitamin K Gerty Cori, First woman to be awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine Douglass North, Nobel Laureate Economist Alfred Hershey, Nobel Laureate bacteriologist known for the Hershey–Chase experiment Joseph W. Kennedy, Co-discoverer of Plutonium References[edit] ^ As of June 30, 2019. "U.S. and Canadian 2019 NTSE Participating Institutions Listed by Fiscal Year 2019 Endowment Market Value, and Percentage Change in Market Value from FY18 to FY19 (Revised)". National Association of College and University Business Officers and TIAA. Retrieved April 18, 2020. ^ a b "University Facts". Washington University in St. Louis. Archived from the original on July 4, 2019. Retrieved July 2, 2019. ^ a b c "Current Enrollment & Graduation Data: Spring 2019". Washington University in St. Louis. Archived from the original on December 25, 2019. Retrieved July 2, 2019. ^ "Washington University in St. Louis (About)". Washington University in St. Louis. Archived from the original on January 3, 2010. Retrieved January 12, 2010. ^ "History of Tyson – Tyson Research Center". Washington University in St. Louis – Biology Department. Archived from the original on August 25, 2011. Retrieved September 23, 2011. ^ "Color Palettes | Office of Public Affairs | Washington University in St. Louis". Archived from the original on July 28, 2016. Retrieved August 3, 2016. ^ "Mail Services | Resource Management | Washington University in St. Louis". resourcemanagement.wustl.edu. Archived from the original on October 18, 2019. Retrieved October 18, 2019. ^ "Enrollments, Degrees, and Admissions". FACTS 2009. Archived from the original on July 26, 2010. Retrieved January 12, 2010. ^ "Nobel Prize Winners". Archived from the original on September 2, 2018. Retrieved February 7, 2015. ^ Analytics, Clarivate. "Global Highly Cited Researchers 2019 list reveals top talent in the sciences and social sciences". www.prnewswire.com. Retrieved April 12, 2020. ^ "Schools and Academic Departments". Washington University in St. Louis homepage. Archived from the original on July 20, 2006. Retrieved July 20, 2006. ^ a b "Origin of the 'Washington' Name". Washington University in St. Louis: University Libraries. Archived from the original on February 10, 2009. ^ "Washington University in St. Louis | Association of American Universities (AAU)". www.aau.edu. Retrieved April 12, 2020. ^ "School of Medicine Facts". Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis. Retrieved April 16, 2020. ^ "Ranking Tables of National Institutes of Health (NIH) Award Data 2019". www.brimr.org. Retrieved April 16, 2020. ^ "Best Genetics Programs". U.S. News. ^ "The Founding of Washington University". Washington University in St. Louis Magazine. Archived from the original on July 25, 2008. Retrieved January 8, 2009. ^ Rectenwald, Miranda. "Research Guides: WU History FAQ: Origin of Washington University's Name". libguides.wustl.edu. Retrieved April 7, 2020. ^ "Washington University". Northern Illinois University Libraries Digitization Projects. Archived from the original on February 10, 2009. Retrieved January 8, 2009. ^ "History and Traditions". Washington University in St. Louis. Retrieved April 7, 2020. ^ "Washington-University" (PDF). ^ a b "Architecture of Danforth Campus". Wustl.edu. Archived from the original on December 2, 2010. Retrieved September 4, 2010. ^ "Frederic Aldin Hall | Facts, History and Traditions | About | Washington University in St. Louis". Wustl.edu. March 8, 1918. Archived from the original on March 7, 2012. Retrieved March 13, 2013. ^ a b "Arthur Holly Compton". Washington University in St. Louis. Retrieved April 21, 2020. ^ "History". www.mir.wustl.edu. Retrieved April 21, 2020. ^ "Arthur Holly Compton | Facts, History and Traditions | About | Washington University in St. Louis". Wustl.edu. February 22, 1946. Archived from the original on March 3, 2013. Retrieved March 13, 2013. ^ "The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1947". NobelPrize.org. Retrieved April 21, 2020. ^ "Desegregation at Washington University in St. Louis". Washington University in St. Louis: University Libraries. Archived from the original on May 17, 2008. Retrieved September 11, 2008. ^ Amy M. Pfeiffenberger, "Democracy at Home: The Struggle to Desegregate Washington University in the Postwar Era," Gateway-Heritage (Missouri Historical Society), vol. 10, no. 3 (Winter 1989), pp. 17–24. ^ a b "South 40 Residential Colleges". Students. October 29, 2018. Retrieved April 7, 2020. ^ "Ethan A.H. Shepley | Facts, History and Traditions | About | Washington University in St. Louis". Wustl.edu. October 14, 1958. Archived from the original on March 7, 2012. Retrieved March 13, 2013. ^ "Thomas H. Eliot | Facts, History and Traditions | About | Washington University in St. Louis". Wustl.edu. February 28, 1970. Archived from the original on March 7, 2012. Retrieved March 13, 2013. ^ "William H. Danforth | Facts, History and Traditions | About | Washington University in St. Louis". Wustl.edu. Archived from the original on December 31, 2012. Retrieved March 13, 2013. ^ "Mark Stephen Wrighton | Leadership | About | Washington University in St. Louis". Wustl.edu. Archived from the original on July 4, 2010. Retrieved March 13, 2013. ^ Watts, Judy H. "Washington University in St. Louis Magazine". Magazine.wustl.edu. Archived from the original on September 6, 2008. Retrieved March 13, 2013. ^ Winter, Greg (December 22, 2003). "A Mighty Fund-Raising Effort Helps Lift a College's Ranking". The New York Times. Archived from the original on July 1, 2017. Retrieved February 20, 2017. ^ "Cortex Innovation Community". www.cortexstl.com. Archived from the original on April 11, 2019. Retrieved August 2, 2019. ^ Wagner, Julie (May 5, 2016). "In St. Louis, a gateway to innovation and inclusion". Brookings. Archived from the original on September 19, 2018. Retrieved August 2, 2019. ^ Editor, Student Life Online Team: Sam Guzik, Director of New Media; Scott Bressler, Online Initiatives Editor; David Seigle, Online Staff; Evan Wiskup, Managing. "Student Life Archives (2001-2008) » Blog Archive » New McDonnell International Scholars Academy announced". Retrieved April 13, 2020.CS1 maint: extra text: authors list (link) ^ "Secretary-General's remarks at meeting with the McDonnell International Scholars Academy [as prepared for delivery]". United Nations Secretary-General. March 11, 2014. Retrieved April 13, 2020. ^ "McDonnell International Scholars Academy at Washington University in St. Louis". ^ "McDonnell International Scholars Academy". Global. Retrieved April 13, 2020. ^ a b "East End Transformation of the Danforth Campus | Campus Next | Washington University in St. Louis". campusnext.wustl.edu. Archived from the original on January 25, 2020. Retrieved February 23, 2020. ^ "Andrew Martin appointed 15th chancellor of Washington University | The Source | Washington University in St. Louis". The Source. July 14, 2018. Retrieved April 13, 2020. ^ a b "Newly inaugurated Washington University Chancellor Andrew D. Martin makes 'WashU Pledge' | The Source | Washington University in St. Louis". The Source. October 3, 2019. Archived from the original on December 25, 2019. Retrieved March 18, 2020. ^ "History of debates at Washington University in St. Louis | Newsroom | Washington University in St. Louis". News-info.wustl.edu. Archived from the original on January 26, 2010. Retrieved March 13, 2013. ^ "Lost site: Presidential campaigns drop St. Louis from debate schedule". Record.wustl.edu. Archived from the original on July 5, 2008. Retrieved March 13, 2013. ^ "Wrighton: 2008 debate bid 'improbable' – News". Media.www.studlife.com. Archived from the original on February 9, 2009. Retrieved March 13, 2013. ^ "Washington University in St. Louis – Vice Presidential Debate 2008". Debate.wustl.edu. Archived from the original on March 16, 2013. Retrieved March 13, 2013. ^ "Washington University not to enter bid for 2020 presidential debate". Student Life. Archived from the original on April 23, 2019. Retrieved April 23, 2019. ^ "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2019: USA". Shanghai Ranking Consultancy. Retrieved August 16, 2019. ^ "America's Top Colleges 2019". Forbes. Retrieved August 15, 2019. ^ "U.S. College Rankings 2020". Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education. Retrieved September 26, 2019. ^ "Best Colleges 2020: National University Rankings". U.S. News & World Report. Retrieved September 8, 2019. ^ "2019 National University Rankings". Washington Monthly. Retrieved August 20, 2019. ^ "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2019". Shanghai Ranking Consultancy. 2019. Retrieved August 16, 2019. ^ "QS World University Rankings® 2020". Quacquarelli Symonds Limited. 2019. Retrieved June 24, 2019. ^ "World University Rankings 2020". THE Education Ltd. Retrieved September 14, 2019. ^ "Best Global Universities Rankings: 2020". U.S. News & World Report LP. Retrieved October 22, 2019. ^ "U.S. News & World Report College Rankings". U.S. News & World Report. 2020. Archived from the original on February 3, 2017. Retrieved September 20, 2019. ^ "College Rankings". The Wall Street Journal. Archived from the original on December 7, 2017. Retrieved September 28, 2016. ^ "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2019". Academic Ranking of World Universities. Archived from the original on August 15, 2019. Retrieved September 20, 2019. ^ "WashU Selectivity Rating". ^ "Washington University in St. Louis - The Princeton Review College Rankings & Reviews". www.princetonreview.com. Retrieved April 8, 2020. ^ "The WashU Class of 2024 | Undergraduate Admissions | Washington University in St. Louis". Undergraduate Admissions. Retrieved March 22, 2020. ^ ""The Best 385 Colleges"". Archived from the original on February 22, 2020. ^ "2020 Washington University in St. Louis Rankings". Niche. Retrieved March 18, 2020. ^ "2021 Best Medical Schools: Research". Archived from the original on March 20, 2018. ^ "Best Genetics Programs". Archived from the original on November 24, 2019. ^ "Best Physical Therapy Programs". Archived from the original on February 5, 2020. ^ "Anatomy & Physiology". Top Universities. February 24, 2020. Retrieved March 20, 2020. ^ a b Byrne, John A. (January 14, 2020). "MBA Program Of The Year: Washington University's Newly Revamped MBA". Poets&Quants. Archived from the original on January 25, 2020. Retrieved January 25, 2020. ^ "America's Best Large Employers". Forbes. Retrieved April 12, 2020. ^ EDT, Newsweek Staff On 8/20/06 at 8:00 PM (August 20, 2006). "America's 25 New Elite 'Ivies'". Newsweek. Archived from the original on July 16, 2019. Retrieved March 18, 2020. ^ Greene, Howard; Greene, Matthew (2016). The Hidden Ivies, 3rd Edition: 63 of America's Top Liberal Arts Colleges and Universities. New York: Cliff Street Books. ISBN 0-06-095362-4. ^ "The Most Economically Diverse Top Colleges". The New York Times. September 8, 2014. ISSN 0362-4331. Retrieved December 27, 2019. ^ "Some Colleges Have More Students From the Top 1 Percent Than the Bottom 60. Find Yours". The New York Times. January 18, 2017. ISSN 0362-4331. Archived from the original on April 10, 2019. Retrieved April 9, 2019. ^ "University announces plan to increase Pell-eligible numbers". Student Life. Archived from the original on December 27, 2019. Retrieved December 27, 2019. ^ Jenkins, Wesley (December 18, 2019). "Washington U. Is No Longer America's Least Economically Diverse College. Is That Good Enough?". The Chronicle of Higher Education. ISSN 0009-5982. Archived from the original on December 28, 2019. Retrieved December 27, 2019. ^ "2021 Best Medical Schools: Research". Archived from the original on March 20, 2018. ^ "2021 Best Law Schools". Archived from the original on March 20, 2017. ^ "2021 Best Business Schools". Archived from the original on March 14, 2012. ^ "Top Health Schools". Usnews.com. Archived from the original on April 1, 2019. Retrieved May 20, 2019. ^ Levy, Francesca; from, Jonathan Rodkin. "These Are the Best Undergraduate Business Schools of 2016". Bloomberg.com. Archived from the original on April 26, 2016. Retrieved December 26, 2016. ^ "America's Best Architecture & Design Schools 2016 - DesignIntelligence". Di.net. Archived from the original on November 20, 2016. Retrieved December 26, 2016. ^ "Reputation and World Rankings". Archived from the original on July 22, 2012. Retrieved June 20, 2012. ^ "Washington University in St. Louis - The Princeton Review College Rankings & Reviews". www.princetonreview.com. Retrieved April 8, 2020. ^ "Washington University to break ground on major neuroscience research hub". Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis. March 6, 2020. Archived from the original on March 19, 2020. Retrieved March 17, 2020. ^ "Olin Hall". Washington University School of Medicine. Archived from the original on December 9, 2006. Retrieved January 26, 2007. ^ "Metro Transit U-Pass | Parking & Transportation | Washington University in St. Louis". parking.wustl.edu. Retrieved April 11, 2020. ^ Clendennen, Andy (July 23, 2004). "Sun rises on University's North Campus". Record. Archived from the original on August 29, 2006. Retrieved January 10, 2007. ^ "Historical Campus Tour: West Campus". Washington University in St. Louis homepage. Archived from the original on October 13, 2006. Retrieved January 10, 2007. ^ "Biology and Building—The Living Learning Center at Washington University's Tyson Research Center: A Journey on the Path to the Living Building Challenge" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on March 16, 2012. Retrieved March 13, 2013. ^ "Facts about Washington U. (Undergraduate Admissions)". Washington University in St. Louis. Archived from the original on October 22, 2011. Retrieved January 12, 2010. ^ "Olin Business School | Alumni | Washington University Business School Alumni". Olin.wustl.edu. Archived from the original on January 30, 2013. Retrieved March 13, 2013. ^ "Washington University in St. Louis Endowment Fund". Endowments.com. Archived from the original on April 2, 2017. Retrieved April 1, 2017. ^ Eckmann, Sabine (2016). Spotlights: Collected by the Mildred Lane Kemper Art Museum. Mildred Lane Kemper Art Museum. ISBN 093631642X. ^ "Interdisciplinary and University-Wide Programs | Academics & Schools | Washington University in St. Louis". Hrnewsarchives.wustl.edu. Archived from the original on April 2, 2017. Retrieved April 1, 2017. ^ "Best Graduate Schools | Top Graduate Programs | US News Education". Grad-schools.usnews.rankingsandreviews.com. Archived from the original on July 24, 2008. Retrieved March 13, 2013. ^ Otten, Liam (October 25, 2006). "Washington University in St. Louis Magazine". Magazine.wustl.edu. Archived from the original on June 3, 2010. Retrieved March 13, 2013. ^ "Best Law Schools: 2020". U.S. News & World Report. Archived from the original on March 20, 2017. ^ Best Medical Schools: Research Archived March 20, 2018, at the Wayback Machine (2019), U.S. News & World Report. ^ Best Medical Schools: Primary Care Archived June 13, 2018, at the Wayback Machine (2019), U.S. News & World Report. ^ "About the McDonnell Genome Institute". McDonnell Genome Institute. Archived from the original on June 27, 2018. Retrieved June 13, 2018. ^ "Ranking Tables of National Institutes of Health (NIH) Award Data 2019". www.brimr.org. Retrieved April 16, 2020. ^ "America's Best Graduate Schools 2009: Health: Social Work". U.S. News & World Report. Archived from the original on April 27, 2008. Retrieved April 16, 2008. ^ "Washington University School of Dental Medicine". Beckerexhibits.wustl.edu. Archived from the original on May 31, 2010. Retrieved May 20, 2019. ^ "Library Facts: By the Numbers". Washington University in St. Louis Libraries. Archived from the original on September 2, 2006. Retrieved September 10, 2006. ^ "Best College Library | The Princeton Review". www.princetonreview.com. Retrieved April 8, 2020. ^ "Opportunities for Students | Washington University in St. Louis". Washington University in St. Louis. Archived from the original on April 7, 2017. Retrieved April 1, 2017. ^ "Research by School | Washington University in St. Louis". Washington University in St. Louis. Archived from the original on April 7, 2017. Retrieved April 1, 2017. ^ "More than 60% of undergraduates perform research". Washington University in St. Louis: Admissions. Archived from the original on July 14, 2008. Retrieved July 18, 2008. ^ "The Top American Research Universities" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on May 5, 2015. Retrieved March 13, 2013. ^ "Office of Undergraduate Research | Washington University in St. Louis". Ur.wustl.edu. Archived from the original on January 8, 2012. Retrieved March 13, 2013. ^ "Research Activity, 2007 Annual Report" (PDF). Washington University in St. Louis: Office of Research. Archived from the original (PDF) on September 9, 2008. Retrieved July 18, 2008. ^ Genome Sequencing Center Archived May 5, 2009, at the Wayback Machine ^ Genomes decoded by Washington University Archived May 30, 2009, at the Wayback Machine ^ Fitzpatrick, Tony (June 12, 2008). "WUSTL plays key role in Phoenix Mars Mission". Record. Archived from the original on February 10, 2009. Retrieved July 18, 2008. ^ "Digitizing the works of a 16th-century poet: Spenser Project receives NEH Scholarly Editions Grant". Record. October 4, 2007. Archived from the original on October 13, 2008. Retrieved July 21, 2008. ^ "Computational biology project aims to better understand protein folding | The Source | Washington University in St. Louis". The Source. February 26, 2019. Retrieved April 12, 2020. ^ Frost, Decrypt / Liam (April 1, 2020). "One million PC owners combine their GPU power to fight COVID-19". Decrypt. Retrieved April 12, 2020. ^ Patrizio, Andy (April 1, 2020). "Thousands of PCs break exaFLOP barrier". Network World. Retrieved April 12, 2020. ^ "Folding@home stats report". archive.is. April 8, 2020. Retrieved April 12, 2020. ^ "Directory of Student Groups". Washington University Student Union. Archived from the original on December 17, 2006. ^ "Secure Login". Connect.wustl.edu. Retrieved April 23, 2019. ^ "Best of St. Louis". Riverfront Times. Archived from the original on September 29, 2007. Retrieved February 10, 2007. ^ "Big Names Drive DUC Funding". Student Life. Archived from the original on February 2, 2009. Retrieved January 8, 2009. ^ "Frequently Asked Questions". Danforth University Center. Archived from the original on July 9, 2008. Retrieved January 8, 2009. ^ "The Amateurs website". Theamateurs.org. Archived from the original on May 14, 2013. Retrieved March 13, 2013. ^ "After Dark website". Wuafterdark.com. Archived from the original on July 22, 2012. Retrieved March 13, 2013. ^ "Wash U. Palin/Biden Love Song Archived October 22, 2012, at the Wayback Machine" from "cbsnews.com" (October 3, 2008) accessed March 17, 2012 ^ Levitt, Aimee. "Fat, Drunk and Stupid: Sigma Alpha Mu Frat Kicked Out of Wash. U." Riverfront Times. Retrieved April 18, 2020. ^ "Best College Dorms | The Princeton Review". www.princetonreview.com. Archived from the original on December 23, 2018. Retrieved August 19, 2019. ^ "WU Residential Life Office". Reslife.wustl.edu. Archived from the original on March 13, 2013. Retrieved March 13, 2013. ^ "WUnderground – WashU's Premier (and only) satirical newspaper!". Wunderground.wustl.edu. Archived from the original on May 5, 2019. Retrieved May 20, 2019. ^ "Women's Basketball". Washington University Athletics. Archived from the original on April 8, 2007. Retrieved April 7, 2007. ^ "Volleyball". Washington University Athletics. Archived from the original on June 6, 2010. Retrieved July 30, 2010. ^ "Athletic Titles". Washington University Athletics. Archived from the original on December 14, 2007. Retrieved November 19, 2007. ^ a b "John Schael". Washington University Athletics. Archived from the original on July 27, 2010. Retrieved July 30, 2010. ^ "Washington University in St Louis Men's Club Volleyball". Sites.google.com. Archived from the original on April 27, 2014. Retrieved March 13, 2013. ^ "Some Days the Bears Get You: Washington University in St. Louis Paws Past Middlebury College, 14-9, to Capture 2015 Division III National Collegiate Club Championship: Collegiate Water Polo Association". Collegiatewaterpolo.org. Archived from the original on September 19, 2016. Retrieved August 22, 2016. ^ "Three-Peat: Washington University in St. Louis Doubles Carnegie Mellon University, 14-7, to Capture 2016 Men's Division III National Collegiate Club Championship: Collegiate Water Polo Association". Collegiatewaterpolo.org. Archived from the original on November 21, 2016. Retrieved November 21, 2016. ^ "Thurtene Carnival is a highlight of spring". stltoday.com. Archived from the original on November 19, 2018. Retrieved January 4, 2018. ^ "April 21-23, 2017". Thurtene.org. Archived from the original on April 2, 2017. Retrieved April 1, 2017. ^ Schoenherr, Neil (April 19, 2006). "Let your imagination ride at Thurtene Carnival April 22–23". Washington University in St. Louis News & Information. Archived from the original on August 28, 2006. Retrieved September 10, 2006. ^ a b "Campus Traditions | Undergraduate Admissions | Washington University in St. Louis". Undergraduate Admissions. Retrieved April 7, 2020. ^ "Convocation | New Students | Washington University in St. Louis". newstudents.wustl.edu. Retrieved April 7, 2020. ^ "Art Prom". Students. November 5, 2018. Retrieved April 7, 2020. ^ "Underpass Panels | Event Management | Washington University in St. Louis". eventmanagement.wustl.edu. Retrieved April 7, 2020. ^ "FACTS 2009 (Alumni & Development)". Washington University in St. Louis. Archived from the original on January 7, 2010. Retrieved January 12, 2010. ^ "Rhodes Scholars". Library.wustl.edu. Archived from the original on March 6, 2013. Retrieved March 13, 2013. ^ "Nobel Prizes". Library.wustl.edu. Archived from the original on November 15, 2006. Retrieved March 13, 2013. ^ Rooney, Sonya. "Research Guides: About WU Archives: Tennessee Williams". Libguides.wustl.edu. Archived from the original on April 26, 2019. Retrieved May 20, 2019. ^ "20 years after his death, a Tennessee Williams work is staged for the first time - The Source - Washington University in St. Louis". Source.wustl.edu. December 19, 2003. Archived from the original on November 17, 2016. Retrieved December 26, 2016. External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Washington University in St. Louis. Official website Washington University Athletics website "Washington University" . New International Encyclopedia. 1905. "Washington University" . Popular Science Monthly. 64. February 1904. v t e Washington University in St. Louis Academics Centers and Institutes Libraries School of Arts and Sciences Olin Business School School of Engineering and Applied Science School of Law School of Medicine George Warren Brown School of Social Work Sam Fox School of Design & Visual Arts Historical: Washington University School of Dental Medicine List of Nobel Laureates McDonnell Genome Institute Campus Brookings Hall Crow Observatory Danforth Campus Medical Campus Mildred Lane Kemper Art Museum North and West Campuses Tyson Research Center Athletics Bears Francis Field Francis Gymnasium People Notable alumni Chancellors Faculty and staff Affiliated Nobel laureates William Greenleaf Eliot, founder History Historical overview Historic District Campus life Mosaic Whispers KWUR Radio Residential colleges Student Life Thurtene Carnival WILD Links to related articles v t e University Athletic Association Brandeis Judges Carnegie Mellon Tartans Case Western Reserve Spartans Chicago Maroons Emory Eagles NYU Violets Rochester Yellowjackets Washington University Bears v t e George Washington 1st President of the United States, 1789–1797 Senior Officer of the Army, 1798–1799 Commander-in-Chief of the Continental Army, 1775–1783 Second Continental Congress, 1775 First Continental Congress, 1774 Military career Revolutionary War Military career French and Indian War Jumonville Glen Battle of Fort Necessity Battle of the Monongahela Forbes Expedition Washington and the American Revolution Commander-in-chief, Continental Army Aides-de-camp Washington's headquarters office and sleeping tent Boston campaign Siege of Boston New York and New Jersey campaign Delaware River crossing Battle of Trenton Battle of the Assunpink Creek Battle of Princeton Philadelphia campaign Battle of Brandywine Battle of Germantown Battle of White Marsh Valley Forge Battle of Monmouth Battles of Saratoga Sullivan Expedition Yorktown campaign Siege of Yorktown Culper spy ring Newburgh Conspiracy Newburgh letter Resignation as commander-in-chief Badge of Military Merit Purple Heart Washington Before Boston Medal Horses: Nelson and Blueskin Other U.S. founding events 1769 Virginia Association Continental Association 1774 Fairfax Resolves Court of Appeals in Cases of Capture 1785 Mount Vernon Conference Chairman, 1787 Constitutional Convention George Washington's political evolution Presidency 1788–89 United States presidential election Reception at Trenton 1792 inaugural bible Title of "Mr. President" Cabinet of the United States Secretary of State Attorney General Secretary of the Treasury Secretary of War Judiciary Act of 1789 Nonintercourse Act Whiskey Rebellion Militia Acts of 1792 Coinage Act of 1792 United States Mint Proclamation of Neutrality Neutrality Act of 1794 Jay Treaty Pinckney's Treaty Slave Trade Act of 1794 Residence Act Thanksgiving Proclamation Farewell Address State of the Union Address 1790 1791 1792 1793 1796 Cabinet Federal judicial appointments Views and public image Presidential library The Washington Papers Religious views Washington and slavery Town Destroyer Legacy Life and homes Early life Birthplace Ferry Farm boyhood home Mount Vernon Gristmill Woodlawn Plantation Samuel Osgood House, First Presidential Mansion Alexander Macomb House, Second Presidential Mansion President's House, Philadelphia Germantown White House Custis estate Potomac Company James River and Kanawha Canal Mountain Road Lottery Congressional Gold Medal Thanks of Congress President-General of the Society of the Cincinnati Washington College Washington and Lee University Electoral history of George Washington Memorials and depictions Washington, D.C. Washington state Washington Monument Mount Rushmore Washington's Birthday Purple Heart The Apotheosis of Washington George Washington (Houdon) George Washington (Ceracchi) George Washington (Canova) George Washington (Greenough) George Washington (Trumbull) Washington Crossing the Delaware The Passage of the Delaware General George Washington at Trenton Washington at Verplanck's Point General George Washington Resigning His Commission Surrender of Lord Cornwallis Unfinished portrait Lansdowne portrait The Washington Family portrait Washington at Princeton paintings Reception at Trenton painting Princeton Battle Monument Point of View sculpture Austin statue Boston statue Philadelphia statue Portland statue Washington, D.C. statue West Point monument George Washington University Washington University Washington Masonic National Memorial George Washington Memorial Parkway George Washington Bridge Washington and Jefferson National Forests Washington Monument, Baltimore Washington Square Park Arch List of memorials U.S. Postage stamps Washington-Franklin Issues 1932 bicentennial Currency Washington quarter 50 State Quarters D.C. and territories quarters America the Beautiful quarters Washington dollar Lafayette dollar Silver bullion coins Washington nickel Mount Washington Cultural depictions George Washington (1984 miniseries 1986 sequel) A More Perfect Union (1989 film) We Fight to Be Free (2006 film) Turn: Washington's Spies (2014-2017 series) Washington (2020 miniseries) Related Bibliography List of articles Founding Fathers of the United States Republicanism Federalist Party Federalist Era Virginia dynasty Coat of arms Cherry-tree anecdote River Farm Washington's Crossing Washington–Rochambeau Revolutionary Route 1751 Barbados trip Category Syng inkstand General of the Armies American Philosophical Society American Revolution patriots Betsy Ross flag Mount Vernon Ladies' Association Ancestry and family Martha Washington (wife) John Parke Custis (stepson) George Washington Parke Custis (step-grandson, adopted son) Eleanor Parke Custis (step-granddaughter, adopted daughter) Augustine Washington (father) Mary Ball Washington (mother) Lawrence Washington (half-brother) Augustine Washington Jr. (half-brother) Betty Washington Lewis (sister) Samuel Washington (brother) John A. Washington (brother) Charles Washington (brother) Lawrence Washington (grandfather) John Washington (great-grandfather) Bushrod Washington (nephew) John Adams → Category v t e Colleges and universities in Missouri Public institutions University of Missouri System University of Missouri Missouri University of Science and Technology University of Missouri–Kansas City University of Missouri–St. Louis Central Missouri Harris–Stowe State Lincoln Missouri Southern Missouri State Missouri Western Northwest Missouri State Southeast Missouri State Truman State Private institutions A.T. Still Conception Seminary College Avila Baptist Bible Central Christian Central Methodist College of the Ozarks Columbia Concordia Seminary Cottey Covenant Culver–Stockton Drury Evangel Fontbonne Hannibal-LaGrange KCAI KCUMB Lindenwood Logan Maryville Midwestern Baptist Missouri Baptist Missouri Valley Nazarene Ozark Christian Park Rockhurst Saint Louis University Saint Louis Christian St. Louis College of Pharmacy Southwest Baptist Stephens Washington University in St. Louis Webster Westminster William Jewell William Woods Nursing schools Chamberlain Sinclair St. Luke's Two-year colleges Crowder East Central Jefferson Metropolitan CC Mineral Area Missouri State University–West Plains Moberly Area CC North Central Missouri Ozarks TCC Ranken TC State Tech St. Charles CC St. Louis CC State Fair CC Three Rivers v t e Colleges and universities in Greater St. Louis Two-year colleges East Central College Jefferson College (Hillsboro, Arnold, Northwest & Imperial) Lewis and Clark Community College (Godfrey & N.O.Nelson) St. Charles Community College St. Louis Community College (Florissant Valley, Forest Park, Meramec & Wildwood) Southwestern Illinois College (Belleville, Granite City & Red Bud) Four-year colleges Goldfarb School of Nursing at Barnes-Jewish College Blackburn College Fontbonne University Greenville College Harris–Stowe State University Kenrick–Glennon Seminary Lindenwood University (St. Charles, Belleville) Logan University Maryville University McKendree University Midwest University Missouri Baptist University Principia Ranken Technical College St. Louis University St. Louis Christian College Stevens Institute of Business and Arts Southern Illinois University-Edwardsville University of Missouri–St. Louis Washington University in St. Louis Webster University Professional/graduate schools Aquinas Institute of Theology Concordia Seminary Covenant Theological Seminary Eden Theological Seminary Six-year colleges St. Louis College of Pharmacy v t e Association of American Universities Public Arizona California Berkeley Davis Irvine Los Angeles San Diego Santa Barbara Santa Cruz Colorado Florida Georgia Tech Illinois Indiana Iowa Iowa State Kansas Maryland Michigan Michigan State Minnesota Missouri New York Buffalo Stony Brook North Carolina Ohio State Oregon Penn State Pittsburgh Purdue Rutgers Texas Texas A&M Utah Virginia Washington Wisconsin Private Boston U Brandeis Brown Caltech Carnegie Mellon Case Western Reserve Chicago Columbia Cornell Dartmouth Duke Emory Harvard Johns Hopkins MIT Northwestern NYU Penn Princeton Rice Rochester USC Stanford Tulane Vanderbilt Wash U Yale Canadian (public) McGill Toronto v t e Universities Research Association Public Alabama Arizona Arizona State California Berkeley Davis Irvine Los Angeles Riverside San Diego Santa Barbara Colorado Colorado State Florida Florida State Houston Illinois Chicago Urbana–Champaign Indiana Iowa Iowa State Kansas State Kentucky LSU Maryland Michigan Michigan State Minnesota Mississippi Nebraska New Mexico New Mexico State North Carolina North Texas Northern Illinois Ohio State Oklahoma Oregon Penn State Pittsburgh Purdue Rutgers South Carolina SUNY Buffalo Stony Brook Tennessee Texas Arlington Austin Dallas Texas A&M Texas Tech Virginia Virginia Tech Washington Wayne State William & Mary Wisconsin Private Boston U Brown Caltech Carnegie Mellon Case Western Reserve Chicago Columbia Cornell Duke Harvard Illinois Tech Johns Hopkins MIT Northeastern Northwestern Notre Dame UPenn Princeton Rice Rochester Rockefeller SMU Stanford Syracuse Tufts Tulane Vanderbilt WUSTL Yale International McGill Toronto Pisa Waseda Manchester Liverpool UCL v t e HCP Research Network California Berkeley Los Angeles Chieti–Pescara D'Annunzio Ernst Strüngmann Institute Harvard Indiana Minnesota Nijmegen Radboud Oxford Saint Louis Warwick Washington Authority control BNF: cb12509445j (data) GND: 1011518-3 ISNI: 0000 0001 2355 7002 LCCN: n79069796 MusicBrainz: 0a64e088-c8a6-47f9-a50f-d84d35cec8c5 NKC: kn20101011006 SUDOC: 034328505 VIAF: 312764918 WorldCat Identities: lccn-n79069796 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Washington_University_in_St._Louis&oldid=953371870" Categories: Washington University in St. Louis Educational institutions established in 1853 1853 establishments in Missouri Gothic Revival architecture in Missouri Collegiate Gothic architecture in Missouri Private universities and colleges in the United States Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design gold certified buildings Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design platinum certified buildings Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design basic silver certified buildings Universities and colleges in Missouri Universities and colleges in St. Louis Universities and colleges in St. Louis County, Missouri Hidden categories: CS1: Julian–Gregorian uncertainty CS1 maint: extra text: authors list Webarchive template wayback links Articles with short description Use mdy dates from September 2015 Articles containing Latin-language text Coordinates on Wikidata Pages using infobox university with the image name parameter Articles needing additional references from April 2020 All articles needing additional references All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from October 2007 Articles with unsourced statements from May 2014 Articles with unsourced statements from April 2020 Commons category link is on Wikidata Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the New International Encyclopedia Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from Popular Science Monthly Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers Wikipedia articles with MusicBrainz place identifiers Wikipedia articles with NKC identifiers Wikipedia articles with SUDOC identifiers Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers Wikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages العربية Azərbaycanca تۆرکجه বাংলা Català Deutsch Español Esperanto فارسی Français Gaeilge 한국어 हिन्दी Íslenska Italiano עברית Кыргызча Latviešu Nederlands 日本語 Norsk bokmål پنجابی Polski Português Русский Simple English Slovenščina Suomi Svenska Tagalog ไทย Türkçe Tiếng Việt 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 27 April 2020, at 01:40 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view