https://www.whitehouse.gov/issues/healthcare/
Healthcare | The White House
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search Healthcare Obamacare is hurting American families, farmers, and small businesses with skyrocketing health insurance costs. Moreover, soaring deductibles and copays have made already unaffordable plans unusable. Close to half of U.S. counties are projected to have only one health insurer on their exchanges in 2018. Replacing Obamacare will force insurance companies to compete for their customers with lower costs and higher-quality service. In the meantime, the President is using his executive authority to reduce barriers to more affordable options for Americans and U.S. businesses. Remarks Remarks by President Trump, Vice President Pence, and Members of the Coronavirus Task Force in Press Briefing Healthcare Apr 27, 2020 Remarks Remarks by President Trump, Vice President Pence, and Members of the Coronavirus Task Force in Press Briefing Healthcare Apr 27, 2020 Remarks Remarks by President Trump in a Meeting with Industry Executives on COVID-19 Response Healthcare Apr 27, 2020 Statements & Releases Statement from the Press Secretary Healthcare Apr 27, 2020 Fact Sheets President Donald J. Trump Is Ensuring States Have The Testing Capacity Needed To Safely Open Up America Again Healthcare Apr 27, 2020 Remarks Remarks by President Trump at a Signing Ceremony for H.R. 266, Paycheck Protection Program and Health Care Enhancement Act Healthcare Apr 24, 2020 Statements & Releases Text of a Letter from the President to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President of the Senate Healthcare Apr 24, 2020 Remarks Remarks by President Trump, Vice President Pence, and Members of the Coronavirus Task Force in Press Briefing Healthcare Apr 23, 2020 Remarks Remarks by President Trump, Vice President Pence, and Members of the Coronavirus Task Force in Press Briefing Healthcare Apr 22, 2020 Statements & Releases Text of the Letter from the President to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President of the Senate Healthcare Apr 22, 2020 Previous 1 2 3 … 61 Next The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search