https://www.whitehouse.gov/the-trump-administration/the-cabinet/
The Cabinet
Skip to content Open Menu White House Logo Copy URL to your clipboard Share Economy National Security Budget Immigration Coronavirus.gov Search WhiteHouse.gov Open Search The Cabinet Share: Share this page on Facebook Share this page on Twitter Copy URL to your clipboard In this section HomeThe Administration The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Mike Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy Established in Article II, Section 2 of the Constitution, the Cabinet’s role is to advise the President on any subject he may require relating to the duties of each member’s respective office. President Donald J. Trump’s Cabinet includes Vice President Mike Pence and the heads of the 15 executive departments – the Secretaries of Agriculture, Commerce, Defense, Education, Energy, Health and Human Services, Homeland Security, Housing and Urban Development, Interior, Labor, State, Transportation, Treasury, and Veterans Affairs, and the Attorney General. Additionally, the Cabinet includes the White House Chief of Staff and heads of the Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Management and Budget, United States Trade Representative, Central Intelligence Agency, Office of the Director of National Intelligence, and Small Business Administration. Follow @Cabinet on Twitter for updates on the Cabinet’s activities. President Trump’s Cabinet Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue Attorney General William Barr Director of the Central Intelligence Agency Gina Haspel Secretary of Commerce Wilbur L. Ross, Jr. Secretary of Defense Mark Esper Secretary of Education Elisabeth Prince DeVos Secretary of Energy Dan Brouillette Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency Andrew Wheeler Secretary of Health and Human Services Alex Azar Acting Secretary of Homeland Security Chad Wolf Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Benjamin S. Carson, Sr. Secretary of the Interior David Bernhardt Secretary of Labor Eugene Scalia Acting Director of the Office of Management and Budget Russ Vought Acting Director of National Intelligence Richard Grenell Administrator of the Small Business Administration Jovita Carranza Secretary of State Mike Pompeo Secretary of Transportation Elaine L. Chao Secretary of the Treasury Steven T. Mnuchin U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer Secretary of Veterans Affairs Robert Wilkie Vice President Michael R. Pence Acting White House Chief of Staff Mick Mulvaney Learn more about the Executive Branch. The White House Live Jobs Get Involved Copyright Policy Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook Instagram Contact News Remarks Briefings & Statements Presidential Actions Articles All News Issues Education National Security & Defense Budget & Spending Immigration Healthcare All Issues The Administration President Donald J. Trump Vice President Michael R. Pence First Lady Melania Trump Second Lady Karen Pence The Cabinet Disclosures Executive Offices Council of Economic Advisers Council on Environmental Quality National Security Council Office of Management and Budget Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of Science and Technology Policy About The White House Tours & Events Past Presidents Past First Ladies The Grounds Our Government Get Involved Write or Call the White House White House Internship Program White House Fellows Contact Live Type Your Search Press enter to search