https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barry_Goldwater
Barry Goldwater - Wikipedia
Barry Goldwater From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search "Goldwater" redirects here. For other uses, see Goldwater (disambiguation). "Senator Goldwater" redirects here. For his uncle, the Arizona state senate member, see Morris Goldwater. This article is about the late United States Senator and Presidential nominee. For his son, see Barry Goldwater Jr. Republican nominee for President, 1964; U.S. Senator from Arizona Barry Goldwater Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee In office January 3, 1985 – January 3, 1987 Preceded by John Tower Succeeded by Sam Nunn Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee In office January 3, 1981 – January 3, 1985 Preceded by Birch Bayh Succeeded by David Durenberger United States Senator from Arizona In office January 3, 1969 – January 3, 1987 Preceded by Carl Hayden Succeeded by John McCain In office January 3, 1953 – January 3, 1965 Preceded by Ernest McFarland Succeeded by Paul Fannin Personal details Born Barry Morris Goldwater (1909-01-02)January 2, 1909 Phoenix, Territory of Arizona, U.S. Died May 29, 1998(1998-05-29) (aged 89) Paradise Valley, Arizona, U.S. Resting place Episcopal Christ Church of the Ascension Paradise Valley, Arizona Political party Republican Spouse(s) Margaret Johnson (m. 1934; died 1985) Susan Shaffer Wechsler (m. 1992) Children 4, including Barry Education University of Arizona Signature Military service Allegiance United States Branch/service United States Army (1941–1947) United States Air Force (1947–1967) Years of service 1941–1945 (USAAF) 1945–1952 (ANG) 1952–1967 (USAFR) Rank Lieutenant Colonel (USAAF) Colonel (ANG) Major General (USAFR) Unit U.S. Army Air Forces Arizona Air National Guard U.S. Air Force Reserve Battles/wars World War II Korean War Barry Morris Goldwater (January 2, 1909[1] – May 29, 1998) was an American politician, businessman, and author who was a five-term Senator from Arizona (1953–1965, 1969–1987) and the Republican Party nominee for president of the United States in 1964. Despite his loss of the 1964 presidential election in a landslide, Goldwater is the politician most often credited with having sparked the resurgence of the American conservative political movement in the 1960s. He also had a substantial impact on the libertarian movement.[2] Goldwater rejected the legacy of the New Deal and fought with the conservative coalition against the New Deal coalition. Although he had supported earlier civil rights legislation, he notably opposed the Civil Rights Act of 1964 as he believed it to be an overreach by the federal government. In 1964, Goldwater mobilized a large conservative constituency to win the hard-fought Republican presidential primaries. Although raised as an Episcopalian,[3] Goldwater was the first candidate of ethnically Jewish heritage to be nominated for President by a major American party (his father was Jewish).[4][5] Goldwater's platform ultimately failed to gain the support of the electorate[6] and he lost the 1964 presidential election to incumbent Democrat Lyndon B. Johnson. Goldwater returned to the Senate in 1969 and specialized in defense and foreign policy. As an elder statesman of the party, Goldwater successfully urged President Richard Nixon to resign in 1974 when evidence of a cover-up in the Watergate scandal became overwhelming and impeachment was imminent. Goldwater's views grew more libertarian as he reached the end of his career; he retired from the Senate in 1987. A significant accomplishment of his career was the passage of the Goldwater–Nichols Act of 1986. He was succeeded by John McCain, who praised his predecessor as the man who "transformed the Republican Party from an Eastern elitist organization to the breeding ground for the election of Ronald Reagan." Goldwater strongly supported the 1980 presidential campaign of Reagan, who had become the standard-bearer of the conservative movement after his "A Time for Choosing" speech. Reagan reflected many of the principles of Goldwater's earlier run in his campaign. The Washington Post columnist George Will took note of this, writing: "We [...] who voted for him in 1964 believe he won, it just took 16 years to count the votes." After leaving the Senate, Goldwater's views cemented as libertarian. He criticized the "moneymaking ventures by fellows like Pat Robertson and others [in the Republican Party] who are trying to...make a religious organization out of it." He lobbied for homosexuals to be able to serve openly in the military, opposed the Clinton administration's plan for health care reform, and supported abortion rights and the legalization of medicinal marijuana. In 1997, Goldwater was revealed to be in the early stages of Alzheimer's disease. He died one year later at the age of 89. Contents 1 Personal life 1.1 Family 1.2 Military career 1.3 Interests 2 Political career 2.1 Senator 2.2 Criticism of the Eisenhower Administration 2.3 1964 Republican presidential primary 2.4 1964 presidential campaign 2.4.1 Political advertising 2.4.2 Results 2.5 Return to the Senate 2.6 Retirement 3 Policies 3.1 Political relationships 3.2 Goldwater and the revival of American conservatism 4 Later life 5 Hobbies and interests 5.1 Amateur radio 5.2 Kachina dolls 5.3 Photography 5.4 UFOs 6 Goldwater Scholarship 7 Death 8 Legacy 8.1 Buildings and monuments 8.2 Documentary 8.3 In popular culture 9 Military awards 10 Other awards 11 Books 12 Relatives 13 See also 14 Notes 15 References 15.1 Primary 15.2 Secondary 16 External links Personal life This article is part of a series on Conservatism in the United States Schools Compassionate Fiscal Fusion Libertarian Movement Neo Nationalist Paleo Social Traditional Principles American exceptionalism Classical liberalism Family values Free market Free trade Judeo-Christian values Limited government Moral absolutism Natural law Pax Americana Republicanism Rule of law Tradition History Bourbon Democrat Conservative coalition Conservative Democrat Conservative Manifesto Loyalists Modern timeline New Right Old Right Overview Rockefeller Republican Southern Agrarians People Abrams Adelson Agnew Ailes Alito Amash Anton Armey Armitage Arpaio Ashcroft Atwater Babbtt Bachmann Baker Bakker (Jim) Bakker (Tammy Faye) Bannon Barbour Barr Barrack Beck Benson Bevin Blackburn Blackwell Blankenship Boehner Bolton Bond Bork Bossie Boykin Bozell Jr. Bradford Bradley Branstad Brat Breitbart Brewer Broidy Brooks Brownback Buchanan Buckley Jr. Bundy Burger Burnham Burns Bush 41 Bush 43 Bush (George P.) Bush (Jeb) Bush (Prescott) Cain Cantor Card Carlson (Gretchen) Carlson (Tucker) Carson Cernovich Chambers Cheney Christie Cleveland Coburn Cohn Colson Conway (George) Conway (Kellyanne) Corker Cotton Coolidge Coors (Holly) Coors (Joseph) Coors (Pete) Coulter Clarke Crowder Cruz Cuccinelli Curtis DeLay DeMint Derbyshire Dewey Dice diGenova Dirksen Dobbs Dobson Dolan (Terry) Dolan (Timothy) Dole Donohue D'Souza Duggar Dulles (Allen) Dulles (John Foster) Eastland Earhardt Eastwood Elder Eisenhower Erickson Falwell Falwell Jr. Feulner Fiorina Fischer Fleming Forbes Ford Francis Friedman Friess Frist Frum Gaetz Gates Gerson Gianforte Gingrich Gohmert Gottfried Goldberg Goldwater Gonzales Gorka Gorsuch Goss Gowdy Graham (Billy) Graham (Franklin) Graham (Lindsey) Grant Grassley Guilfoyle Giuliani Hagee Haig Hamm Hannity Hastert Hasselbeck Hatch Helms Hewitt Hicks Hoover Hoppe Horowitz Holmes Huckabee Hunt Huntsman Icahn Ingraham Jaffa Jeffress Jindal Johnson Jones Jordan Kasich Kavanaugh Kelly Kemp Kennedy Keyes King (Alveda) King (Steve) Kirk Kirkpatrick Kissinger Klayman Knowland Kobach Koch (Charles) Koch (David) Koch (Fred) Krauthammer Kristol (Bill) Kristol (Irving) Kushner Laffer Lahren LaPierre Lee LeMay Leo Levin Lewandowski Limbaugh Lindbergh Lodge Loesch Lott Lowry Luce Maddox Malkin Manafort Mason Massie McCain McCarthy (Joseph) McCarthy (Kevin) McCloy McConnell McCurtain McEnany McDaniel McDonald McFarlane McMahon (Linda) McMahon (Vince) Meadows Meese Mercer (Rebekah) Mercer (Robert) Meyer Miller Moore Mueller Mullin Mulvaney Murchison Murdoch Napolitano Negroponte Nixon Nehlen Noonan Norquist North Novak Nugent Nunes O'Keefe Oliver Olson (Barbara) Olson (Theodore) O'Reilly Osborne Osteen Owens Pataki Parscale Palin Patton Paul (Rand) Paul (Ron) Peale Pearson Pence Perkins Perot Perry Peterson Phillips Pierson Pipes Podhoretz (John) Podhoretz (Norman) Pompeo Porterfield Powell Prager Price Priebus Rand Reagan Reed Rice Rivera Roberts (John) Roberts (Oral) Robertson (Pat) Robertson (Phil) Rockefeller Romney Rock Rove Ryan Rubio Rumsfield Ruffin Russell Jr. Sanders Sanford Santorum Sailer Sasse Savage Scaife Scalia Scalise Scaramucci Schlafly Schlesinger Scott (Darrell) Scott (Tim) Sekulow Sessions Shapiro Sheldon Shultz Skousen Smith Sobran Sowell Starr Stevens Stimson Stoddard Strauss Stone Taft (Robert A.) Taft (William Howard) Tantaros Tebow Thiel Thomas Thompson (Fred) Thompson (Tommy) Thune Thurmond Toensing Toomey Trump (Donald) Trump (Ivanka) Trump (Lara) Trump Jr. Tuberville Tyrrell Van Drew Varney Vandenberg Viguerie Volpe Walker Walsh Wayne Weaver Weinberger Welch Jr. West Weyrich Whitaker White (Dana) White (Paula) Whitman Wolfowitz Will Williams (Armstrong) Williams (Walter E.) Wilson Wynn Parties American Party American Independent Party Conservative Party of New York State Constitution Party Democratic Party (early) Federalist Party Libertarian Party Native American Party Prohibition Party Reform Party Republican Party (modern) States' Rights Democratic Party Think tanks Acton Institute Alexis de Tocqueville Institution American Enterprise Institute Center for Immigration Studies Center for Security Policy Center for the National Interest Charles Koch Institute Claremont Institute Competitive Enterprise Institute David Horowitz Freedom Center Discovery Institute Ethics and Public Policy Center Family Research Institute Gatestone Institute The Heartland Institute The Heritage Foundation Hoover Institution Hudson Institute Intercollegiate Studies Institute Institute on the Constitution Manhattan Institute Mises Institute Pacific Research Institute Project for the New American Century Ripon Society R Street Institute Rockford Institute State Policy Network Tax Foundation Other organizations ACT! for America Alliance Defending Freedom American Center for Law & Justice American Family Association American Liberty League Arlington Group Chalcedon Foundation Christian Coalition of America Christian Voice Club for Growth Concerned Women for America ConservAmerica The Conservative Caucus Council of Conservative Citizens Council for National Policy Eagle Forum Faith and Freedom Coalition Family Research Council Federalist Society Federation for American Immigration Reform The Fellowship Focus on the Family Foundation for Individual Rights in Education Foundation for Moral Law Freedom Caucus Freedom Partners FreedomWorks Gun Owners of America Independent Women's Forum John Birch Society John M. Olin Foundation Judicial Watch Leadership Institute Liberty Lobby Log Cabin Republicans Media Research Center Moral Majority National Conservative PAC National Federation of Independent Business National Organization for Marriage National Rifle Association National Right to Life Committee National Taxpayers Union NumbersUSA Oath Keepers Philadelphia Society Regnery Publishing Republican Main Street Partnership Republican Study Committee Second Amendment Caucus Susan B. Anthony List Tea Party Patriots Turning Point USA Traditional Values Coalition United States Chamber of Commerce Young America's Foundation Young Americans for Liberty Youth for Western Civilization Media American Affairs The American Conservative The American Spectator American Renaissance American Thinker Blaze Media Breitbart News Campus Reform Chicago Tribune CBN City Journal Claremont Review of Books CNSNews.com Commentary Conservative Review Chronicles Daily Caller Daily Signal Daily Wire Dallas Morning News Drudge Report The Federalist First Things Fox Business Fox News FrontPage Magazine Front Porch Republic Gateway Pundit Hot Air Human Events Independent Journal Review InfoWars Jewish World Review Jihad Watch Las Vegas Review-Journal LifeSiteNews LifeZette Modern Age National Affairs The National Interest National Review The New American The New Criterion NewsBusters Newsmax New York Observer New York Post One America News Network PanAm Post Policy Review Power Line PragerU PJ Media Rare Real News Update RedState RSBN Sinclair Broadcast Group The Spotlight Taki's Magazine Townhall TruthRevolt Twitchy VDARE The Wall Street Journal Washington Examiner The Washington Free Beacon The Washington Times The Weekly Standard The Western Journal WorldNetDaily Variants and movements Asian and Pacific Islander conservatism Black conservatism Christian right Conservative Democrats Female conservatism Green conservatism LGBT conservatism Libertarian conservatism Libertarian Republicans Patriot movement Radical Right Right-libertarianism Tea Party movement See also American nationalism Bibliography Libertarianism List Conservatism portal v t e Part of a series on Libertarianism in the United States Origins Age of Enlightenment Aristotelianism Classical liberalism Concepts Anti-imperialism Argumentation ethics Civil libertarianism Counter-economics Decentralization Economic freedom Free market Free-market environmentalism Free migration Free society Free trade Free will Freedom of association Freedom of contract Homestead principle Individuality Individualism Liberty Limited government Localism Marriage privatization Natural and legal rights Night-watchman state Non-aggression principle Non-interventionism Non-politics Non-voting Polycentric law Private defense agency Private property Public choice theory Restorative justice Self-ownership Single tax Small government Spontaneous order Stateless society Tax resistance Title-transfer theory of contract Voluntary association Voluntary society Schools Austro-libertarianism Bleeding-heart libertarianism Christian libertarianism Consequentialist libertarianism Geolibertarianism Green libertarianism Natural-rights libertarianism Neo-libertarianism Paleolibertarianism Technolibertarianism Theory Agorism Anarcho-capitalism Autarchism Constitutionalism Fusionism Left-wing laissez-faire Left-wing market anarchism Libertarian conservatism Libertarian feminism Libertarian paternalism Libertarian Republican Libertarian transhumanism Minarchism Panarchism Propertarianism Steiner–Vallentyne school Voluntaryism Economics Austrian School Economic liberalism Fiscal conservatism Georgism Laissez-faire Neoliberalism Supply-side economics People Amash Barnett Block Boortz Brennan Caplan Carson Chartier Chodorov Cooke Epstein Friedman Gillespie Goldwater Hazlitt Heinlein Hess Hoppe Hospers Huemer Johnson Kinsella Konkin III Long Machan McElroy Mencken Moen Napolitano Nock Nolan Nozick Paterson Paul Postrel Read Rockwell Rothbard Schulman Sciabarra Sowell Stossel Thiel Wilder Wilder Lane Williams Woods History New Left Old Right Issues Abortion Capital punishment Criticism Foreign affairs Immigration Inheritance Intellectual property Internal debates LGBT rights Objectivism Political parties Politics State Theories of law Culture Libertarian hip hop Libertarian science fiction Organizations Alliance of the Libertarian Left Cato Institute Free State Project Foundation for Economic Education International Alliance of Libertarian Parties Libertarian Party Liberty International Mises Institute Reason Foundation Students for a Democratic Society Students for Liberty Works Anarchy, State, and Utopia The Ethics of Liberty For a New Liberty: The Libertarian Manifesto Free to Choose Law, Legislation and Liberty The Market for Liberty Related topics Left-libertarianism Libertarianism in Hong Kong Libertarianism in South Africa Libertarianism in the United Kingdom New Right Outline of libertarianism Right-libertarianism Libertarianism portal Liberalism portal v t e Goldwater was born in Phoenix in what was then the Arizona Territory, the son of Baron M. Goldwater and his wife, Hattie Josephine "JoJo" Williams. His father's family had founded Goldwater's, a leading upscale department store in Phoenix.[7] Goldwater's paternal grandfather, Michel Goldwasser, a Polish Jew, was born in 1821 in Konin, then part of the Russian Empire, whence he emigrated to London following the Revolutions of 1848. Soon after arriving in London, he anglicized his name from Goldwasser to Goldwater. Michel married Sarah Nathan, a member of an English Jewish family, in the Great Synagogue of London.[8][9] His father was Jewish and his mother, who was Episcopalian, came from a New England family that included the theologian Roger Williams of Rhode Island.[10] Goldwater's parents were married in an Episcopal church in Phoenix; for his entire life, Goldwater was an Episcopalian, though on rare occasions he referred to himself as Jewish.[11] While he did not often attend church, he stated that "If a man acts in a religious way, an ethical way, then he's really a religious man—and it doesn't have a lot to do with how often he gets inside a church."[12][13][14] After he did poorly as a freshman in high school, Goldwater's parents sent him to Staunton Military Academy in Virginia where he played varsity football, basketball, track and swimming, was senior class treasurer and attained the rank of captain.[11][15] He graduated from the academy in 1928 and enrolled at the University of Arizona.[15][16] Goldwater dropped out of college after one year. He is the most recent non-college graduate to be the nominee of a major political party in a presidential election. Goldwater entered the family's business around the time of his father's death in 1930. Six years later, he took over the department store, though he was not particularly enthused about running the business.[11] Family In 1934, he married Margaret "Peggy" Johnson, daughter of a prominent industrialist from Muncie, Indiana. They had four children: Joanne (born January 18, 1936), Barry (born July 15, 1938), Michael (born March 15, 1940), and Peggy (born July 27, 1944). Goldwater became a widower in 1985, and in 1992 he married Susan Wechsler, a nurse 32 years his junior.[17] Goldwater's son Barry Goldwater Jr. served as a United States House of Representatives member from California from 1969 to 1983. Goldwater's uncle Morris Goldwater (1852–1939) was an Arizona territorial and state legislator, mayor of Prescott, Arizona, and a businessman.[18] Goldwater's grandson Ty Ross, a former Zoli model, is openly gay and HIV positive, and the one who inspired the elder Goldwater "to become an octogenarian proponent of gay civil rights".[19] Military career With the American entry into World War II, Goldwater received a reserve commission in the United States Army Air Forces. He became a pilot assigned to the Ferry Command, a newly formed unit that flew aircraft and supplies to war zones worldwide. He spent most of the war flying between the U.S. and India, via the Azores and North Africa or South America, Nigeria, and Central Africa. He also flew "the hump" over the Himalayas to deliver supplies to the Republic of China. Following World War II, Goldwater was a leading proponent of creating the United States Air Force Academy, and later served on the Academy's Board of Visitors. The visitor center at the Academy is now named in his honor. As a colonel he also founded the Arizona Air National Guard, and he desegregated it two years before the rest of the U.S. military. Goldwater was instrumental in pushing the Pentagon to support desegregation of the armed services.[20] Remaining in the Arizona Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve after the war, he eventually retired as a Command Pilot with the rank of major general.[21] By that time, he had flown 165 different types of aircraft. As an Air Force Reserve major general, he continued piloting aircraft, to include the B-52 Stratofortress, until late in his military career. As a U.S. Senator, Goldwater had a sign in his office that referenced his military career and mindset: "There are old pilots and there are bold pilots, but there are no old, bold pilots."[22] Interests Goldwater ran track and cross country in high school, where he specialized in the 880 yard run. His parents strongly encouraged him to compete in these sports, to his dismay. He often went by the nickname of "Rolling Thunder".[citation needed] In 1940, Goldwater became one of the first people to run the Colorado River recreationally through Grand Canyon participating as an oarsman on Norman Nevills' second commercial river trip. Goldwater joined them in Green River, Utah, and rowed his own boat down to Lake Mead.[23] In 1970 the Arizona Historical Foundation published the daily journal Goldwater had maintained on the Grand Canyon journey, including his photographs, in a 209-page volume titled Delightful Journey. In 1963 he joined the Arizona Society of the Sons of the American Revolution. He was also a lifetime member of the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the American Legion, and Sigma Chi fraternity. He belonged to both the York Rite and Scottish Rite of Freemasonry, and was awarded the 33rd degree in the Scottish Rite. Political career In a heavily Democratic state, Goldwater became a conservative Republican and a friend of Herbert Hoover. He was outspoken against New Deal liberalism, especially its close ties to labor unions. A pilot, amateur radio operator, outdoorsman and photographer, he criss-crossed Arizona and developed a deep interest in both the natural and the human history of the state. He entered Phoenix politics in 1949, when he was elected to the City Council as part of a nonpartisan team of candidates pledged to clean up widespread prostitution and gambling. The team won every mayoral and council election for the next two decades. Goldwater rebuilt the weak Republican party and was instrumental in electing Howard Pyle as Governor in 1950.[24][25] Senator As a Republican he won a seat in the U.S. Senate in 1952, when he upset veteran Democrat and Senate Majority Leader Ernest McFarland. He won largely by defeating McFarland in his native Maricopa County by 12,600 votes, almost double the overall margin of 6,725 votes. As a measure of how Democratic Arizona had been since joining the Union 40 years earlier, Goldwater was only the second Republican ever to represent Arizona in the Senate. In his first year in the Senate he desegregated the Senate cafeteria, insisting that his black legislative assistant, Kathrine Maxwell, be served along with every other Senate employee.[26] He defeated McFarland again in 1958, with a strong showing in his first reelection; he was the first Arizona Republican to win a second term in the Senate. Goldwater's victory was all the more remarkable since it came in a year the Democrats gained 13 seats in the Senate. He gave up re-election for the Senate in 1964 in favor of his presidential campaign. During his Senate career, Goldwater was regarded as the "Grand Old Man of the Republican Party and one of the nation's most respected exponents of conservatism".[27] Criticism of the Eisenhower Administration Goldwater was outspoken about the Eisenhower administration, calling some of the policies of the Eisenhower administration too liberal for a Republican President. "...Democrats delighted in pointing out that the junior senator was so headstrong that he had gone out his way to criticize the president of his own party."[28] There was a Democratic majority in Congress for most of Eisenhower's career and Goldwater felt that President Dwight Eisenhower was compromising too much with Democrats in order to get legislation passed. Early on in his career as a senator for Arizona, he criticized the $71.8 billion budget that President Eisenhower sent to Congress, stating "Now, however, I am not so sure. A $71.8 billion budget not only shocks me, but it weakens my faith."[29] Goldwater opposed Eisenhower's pick of Earl Warren for Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. "The day that Eisenhower appointed Governor Earl Warren of California as Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, Goldwater did not hesitate to express his misgivings."[30] Goldwater and the Eisenhower administration supported the integration of schools in the south, but Goldwater felt the states should choose how they wanted to integrate and should not be forced by the federal government. "Goldwater criticized the use of federal troops. He accused the Eisenhower administration of violating the Constitution by assuming powers reserved by the states. While he agreed that under the law, every state should have integrated its schools, each state should integrate in its own way."[31] There were high-ranking government officials following Goldwater's critical stance on the Eisenhower administration, even an Army General. "Fulbright's startling revelation that military personnel were being indoctrinated with the idea that the policies of the Commander in Chief were treasonous dovetailed with the return to the news of the strange case of General Edwin Walker."[32] 1964 Republican presidential primary In 1964, Goldwater fought and won a multi-candidate race for the Republican Party's presidential nomination. His main rival was New York Governor Nelson Rockefeller, whom he defeated by a narrow margin in the California primary. Eisenhower gave his support to Goldwater when he told reporters, "I personally believe that Goldwater is not an extremist as some people have made him, but in any event we're all Republicans."[33] His nomination was opposed by liberal Republicans, who thought Goldwater's demand for active measures to defeat the Soviet Union, would foment a nuclear war. He delivered a captivating acceptance speech, to which "he devoted more care...than to any other speech in his political career. And with good reason: he would deliver it to the largest and most attentive audience of his life. No other statement of the 1950s and 1960s, including The Conscience of a Conservative, presents more truly Barry Goldwater's basic beliefs and his positions on current issues."[34] President Lyndon B. Johnson with Senator Goldwater, January 16, 1964 1964 presidential campaign See also: Barry Goldwater 1964 presidential campaign and 1964 United States presidential election Republican primaries results by state No primary held John W. Byrnes Barry Goldwater Henry Cabot Lodge Jr. James A. Rhodes Nelson Rockefeller William W. Scranton In South Dakota and Florida, Goldwater finished second to "unpledged delegates", but he finished before all other candidates At the time of Goldwater's presidential candidacy, the Republican Party was split between its conservative wing (based in the West and South) and moderate/liberal wing, sometimes called Rockefeller Republicans (based in the Northeast). Goldwater alarmed even some of his fellow partisans with his brand of staunch fiscal conservatism and militant anti-communism. He was viewed by many traditional Republicans as being too far on the right wing of the political spectrum to appeal to the mainstream majority necessary to win a national election. As a result, moderate Republicans recruited a series of opponents, including New York Governor Nelson Rockefeller, Henry Cabot Lodge Jr., of Massachusetts and Pennsylvania Governor William Scranton, to challenge him. Goldwater would defeat Rockefeller in the winner-take-all California primary and secure the nomination. He also had a solid backing from Southern Republicans. A young Birmingham lawyer, John Grenier, secured commitments from 271 of 279 Southern convention delegates to back Goldwater. Grenier would serve as executive director of the national GOP during the Goldwater campaign, the number 2 position to party chairman Dean Burch of Arizona. Journalist John Adams says, "his acceptance speech was bold, reflecting his conservative views, but not irrational. Rather than shrinking from those critics who accuse him of extremism, Goldwater challenged them head-on" in his acceptance speech at the 1964 Republican Convention.[35] In his own words: I would remind you that extremism in the defense of liberty is no vice. And let me remind you also that moderation in the pursuit of justice is no virtue.[36] His paraphrase of Cicero was included at the suggestion of Harry V. Jaffa, though the speech was primarily written by Karl Hess. Because of President Johnson's popularity, Goldwater refrained from attacking the president directly. He did not mention Johnson by name at all in his convention speech. Ronald Reagan speaks for presidential candidate Goldwater in Los Angeles, 1964 Former U.S. Senator Prescott Bush, a moderate Republican from Connecticut, was a friend of Goldwater and supported him in the general election campaign. Bush's son, George H. W. Bush (then running for the Senate from Texas against Democrat Ralph Yarborough), was also a strong Goldwater supporter in both the nomination and general election campaigns. Future Chief Justice of the United States and fellow Arizonan William H. Rehnquist also first came to the attention of national Republicans through his work as a legal adviser to Goldwater's presidential campaign. Rehnquist had begun his law practice in 1953 in the firm of Denison Kitchel of Phoenix, Goldwater's national campaign manager and friend of nearly three decades.[37] Goldwater was painted as a dangerous figure by the Johnson campaign, which countered Goldwater's slogan "In your heart, you know he's right" with the lines "In your guts, you know he's nuts," and "In your heart, you know he might" (that is, he might actually use nuclear weapons as opposed to using only deterrence). Johnson himself did not mention Goldwater in his own acceptance speech at the 1964 Democratic National Convention. Goldwater's provocative advocacy of aggressive tactics to prevent the spread of communism in Asia led to effective counterattacks from Lyndon B. Johnson and his supporters, who claimed that Goldwater's militancy would have dire consequences, possibly even nuclear war. In a May 1964 speech, Goldwater suggested that nuclear weapons should be treated more like conventional weapons and used in Vietnam, specifically that they should have been used at Dien Bien Phu in 1954 to defoliate trees.[38] Regarding Vietnam, Goldwater charged that Johnson's policy was devoid of "goal, course, or purpose," leaving "only sudden death in the jungles and the slow strangulation of freedom".[39] Goldwater's rhetoric on nuclear war was viewed by many as quite uncompromising, a view buttressed by off-hand comments such as, "Let's lob one into the men's room at the Kremlin."[40] He also advocated that field commanders in Vietnam and Europe should be given the authority to use tactical nuclear weapons (which he called "small conventional nuclear weapons") without presidential confirmation.[41] 1964 presidential campaign bumper sticker representing the Goldwater surname as Au = gold and H2O = water Goldwater countered the Johnson attacks by criticizing the administration for its perceived ethical lapses, and stating in a commercial that "we, as a nation, are not far from the kind of moral decay that has brought on the fall of other nations and people.... I say it is time to put conscience back in government. And by good example, put it back in all walks of American life." Goldwater campaign commercials included statements of support by actor Raymond Massey[42] and moderate Republican senator Margaret Chase Smith.[43] Before the 1964 election, Fact magazine, published by Ralph Ginzburg, ran a special issue titled "The Unconscious of a Conservative: A Special Issue on the Mind of Barry Goldwater". The two main articles contended that Goldwater was mentally unfit to be president. The magazine supported this claim with the results of a poll of board-certified psychiatrists. Fact had mailed questionnaires to 12,356 psychiatrists, receiving responses from 2,417, of whom 1,189 said Goldwater was mentally incapable of holding the office of president. Most of the other respondents declined to diagnose Goldwater because they had not clinically interviewed him, but claimed that, although not psychologically unfit to preside, Goldwater would be negligent and egregious in the role.[44][45] After the election, Goldwater sued the publisher, the editor and the magazine for libel in Goldwater v. Ginzburg. "Although the jury awarded Goldwater only $1.00 in compensatory damages against all three defendants, it went on to award him punitive damages of $25,000 against Ginzburg and $50,000 against Fact magazine, Inc."[46] According to Warren Boroson, then-managing editor of Fact and later a financial columnist, the main biography of Goldwater in the magazine was written by David Bar-Illan, the Israeli pianist.[47] Political advertising Main article: Daisy (advertisement) Play media "Daisy" advertisement A Democratic campaign advertisement known as Daisy showed a young girl counting daisy petals, from one to ten. Immediately following this scene, a voiceover counted down from ten to one. The child's face was shown as a still photograph followed by images of nuclear explosions and mushroom clouds. The campaign advertisement ended with a plea to vote for Johnson, implying that Goldwater (though not mentioned by name) would provoke a nuclear war if elected. The advertisement, which featured only a few spoken words and relied on imagery for its emotional impact, was one of the most provocative in American political campaign history, and many analysts credit it as being the birth of the modern style of "negative political ads" on television. The ad aired only once and was immediately pulled, but it was then shown many times by local television stations covering the controversy.[48] Goldwater did not have ties to the Ku Klux Klan (KKK), but he was publicly endorsed by members of the organization.[49][50] Lyndon B. Johnson exploited this association during the elections,[51][52][53] but Goldwater barred the KKK from supporting him and denounced them.[54] Past comments came back to haunt Goldwater throughout the campaign. He had once called the Eisenhower administration "a dime-store New Deal" and the former President never fully forgave him. However, Eisenhower did film a television commercial with Goldwater.[55] Eisenhower qualified his voting for Goldwater in November by remarking that he had voted not specifically for Goldwater, but for the Republican Party.[56] In December 1961, Goldwater had told a news conference that "sometimes I think this country would be better off if we could just saw off the Eastern Seaboard and let it float out to sea." That comment boomeranged on him during the campaign in the form of a Johnson television commercial,[57] as did remarks about making Social Security voluntary,[58] and statements in Tennessee about selling the Tennessee Valley Authority, a large local New Deal employer.[59] The Goldwater campaign spotlighted Ronald Reagan, who appeared in a campaign ad.[60] In turn, Reagan gave a stirring, nationally televised speech, "A Time for Choosing", in support of Goldwater.[61] The speech prompted Reagan to seek the California Governorship in 1966 and jump-started his political career. Conservative activist Phyllis Schlafly, later well known for her fight against the Equal Rights Amendment, first became known for writing a pro-Goldwater book, A Choice, Not an Echo, attacking the moderate Republican establishment. Results Presidential election results by state Goldwater lost to President Lyndon Johnson by a landslide, pulling down the Republican Party which lost many seats in both houses of Congress. Goldwater only won his home state of Arizona and five states in the Deep South, depicted in red. The Southern states, traditionally Democratic up to that time, voted Republican primarily as a statement of opposition to the Civil Rights Act, which had been passed by Johnson and the Northern Democrats, as well as the majority of Republicans in Congress, earlier that year.[62][63] In the end, Goldwater received 38% of the popular vote, and carried just six states: Arizona (with 51% of the popular vote) and the core states of the Deep South: Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, and South Carolina. In carrying Georgia by a margin of 54–45%, Goldwater became the first Republican nominee to win the state. However, the overall result was the worst showing in terms of popular vote and electoral college vote for any post-World War II Republican. Indeed, he wouldn't have even carried his own state if not for a 20,000-vote margin in Maricopa County. In all, Johnson won an overwhelming 486 electoral votes, to Goldwater's 52. Goldwater, with his customary bluntness, remarked, "We would have lost even if Abraham Lincoln had come back and campaigned with us." He maintained later in life that he would have won the election if the country had not been in a state of extended grief following the assassination of John F. Kennedy, and that it was simply not ready for a third president in just 14 months. Goldwater's poor showing pulled down many supporters. Of the 57 Republican Congressmen who endorsed Goldwater before the convention, 20 were defeated for reelection, along with many promising young Republicans. On the other hand, the defeat of so many older politicians created openings for young conservatives to move up the ladder. While the loss of moderate Republicans was temporary—they were back by 1966—Goldwater also permanently pulled many conservative Southerners and white ethnics out of the New Deal Coalition.[64] According to Steve Kornacki of Salon, "Goldwater broke through and won five [Southern] states—the best showing in the region for a GOP candidate since Reconstruction. In Mississippi—where Franklin D. Roosevelt had won nearly 100 percent of the vote 28 years earlier—Goldwater claimed a staggering 87 percent."[65] It has frequently been argued that Goldwater's strong performance in Southern states previously regarded as Democratic strongholds foreshadowed a larger shift in electoral trends in the coming decades that would make the South a Republican bastion (an end to the "Solid South")—first in presidential politics and eventually at the congressional and state levels, as well.[66] Also, Goldwater's uncompromising promotion of freedom was the start of a continuing shift in American politics from liberalism to a conservative economic philosophy.[67] Return to the Senate Goldwater meets with President Ronald Reagan in the oval office, 1984 Goldwater remained popular in Arizona, and in the 1968 Senate election he was elected (this time) to the seat of retiring Senator Carl Hayden. He was subsequently reelected in 1974 and 1980. The 1974 election saw Goldwater easily reelected over his Democratic opponent, Jonathan Marshall, the publisher of The Scottsdale Progress. With his fourth Senate term due to end in January 1981, Goldwater seriously considered retiring from the Senate in 1980 before deciding to run for one final term. It was a surprisingly tough battle for re-election. He was viewed by some as out of touch and vulnerable for several reasons. Chief among them was that Goldwater, because he had planned to retire in 1981, had not visited many areas of Arizona outside of Phoenix and Tucson. Additionally, his challenger, Bill Schulz, proved to be a formidable opponent. A former Republican turned Democrat and a wealthy real estate developer, his campaign slogan was "Energy for the Eighties." In the general election, Goldwater won by a very narrow margin, receiving 49.5% of the vote to Schulz's 48.4%.[68] Arizona's changing population also hurt Goldwater. The state's population had soared, and a huge portion of the electorate had not lived in the state when Goldwater was previously elected; hence, many voters were less familiar with Goldwater's actual beliefs, and he was on the defensive for much of the campaign. Early returns on election night seemed to indicate that Schulz would win. The counting of votes continued through the night and into the next morning. At around daybreak, Goldwater learned that he had been reelected thanks to absentee ballots, which were among the last to be counted.[69] Goldwater's surprisingly close victory in 1980 came despite Reagan's 61% landslide over Jimmy Carter in Arizona. Republicans regained control of the Senate, putting Goldwater in the most powerful position he ever had in the Senate. Retirement Goldwater said later that the close result in 1980 convinced him not to run again.[70] He retired in 1987, serving as chair of the Senate Intelligence and Armed Services Committees in his final term. Despite his reputation as a firebrand in the 1960s, by the end of his career he was considered a stabilizing influence in the Senate, one of the most respected members of either major party. Although Goldwater remained staunchly anti-communist and "hawkish" on military issues, he was a key supporter of the fight for ratification of the Panama Canal Treaty in the 1970s, which would give control of the canal zone to the Republic of Panama. His most important legislative achievement may have been the Goldwater–Nichols Act, which reorganized the U.S. military's senior-command structure. Policies Goldwater became most associated with labor-union reform and anti-communism; he was a supporter of the conservative coalition in Congress. His work on labor issues led to Congress passing major anti-corruption reforms in 1957, and an all-out campaign by the AFL-CIO to defeat his 1958 reelection bid. He voted against the censure of Senator Joseph McCarthy in 1954, but he never actually charged any individual with being a communist/Soviet agent. Goldwater emphasized his strong opposition to the worldwide spread of communism in his 1960 book The Conscience of a Conservative. The book became an important reference text in conservative political circles. Informal press conference August 7, 1974 (one day before Nixon announced his resignation) following a meeting between Goldwater, Senate Minority Leader Scott, House Minority Leader Rhodes and the President to discuss the Watergate scandal and impeachment process In 1964, Goldwater ran a conservative campaign that emphasized states' rights.[71] Goldwater's 1964 campaign was a magnet for conservatives since he opposed interference by the federal government in state affairs. Although he had supported all previous federal civil rights legislation including the 1957 Civil Rights Act H.R. 6127 and the 1960 Civil Rights Act H.R. 8601[citation needed] and had supported the original Senate version of the bill, Goldwater made the decision to oppose the Civil Rights Act of 1964. His stance was based on his view that Article II and Article VII of the Act interfered with the rights of private persons to do or not to do business with whomever they chose, and believed that the private employment provisions of the Act would lead to racial quotas.[72] In the segregated city of Phoenix in the 1950s, he had quietly supported civil rights for blacks, but would not let his name be used.[73] All this appealed to white Southern Democrats, and Goldwater was the first Republican to win the electoral votes of all of the Deep South states (South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi and Louisiana) since Reconstruction[62] (although Dwight Eisenhower did carry Louisiana in 1956). However, Goldwater's vote on the Civil Rights Act proved devastating to his campaign everywhere outside the South (besides Dixie, Goldwater won only in Arizona, his home state), contributing to his landslide defeat in 1964. While Goldwater had been depicted by his opponents in the Republican primaries as a representative of a conservative philosophy that was extreme and alien, his voting records show that his positions were in harmony with those of his fellow Republicans in the Congress. According to Hans J. Morgenthau, what distinguished him from his predecessors was his firmness of principle and determination, which did not allow him to be content with mere rhetoric.[74] Goldwater fought in 1971 to stop U.S. funding of the United Nations after the People's Republic of China was admitted to the organization. He said: I suggested on the floor of the Senate today that we stop all funds for the United Nations. Now, what that'll do to the United Nations, I don't know. I have a hunch it would cause them to fold up, which would make me very happy at this particular point. I think if this happens, they can well move their headquarters to Peking or Moscow and get 'em out of this country.[75] Political relationships Goldwater was grief-stricken[76] by the assassination of Kennedy and was greatly disappointed that his opponent in 1964 would not be Kennedy but instead his Vice President, former Senate Majority Leader Lyndon B. Johnson of Texas.[77] Goldwater disliked Johnson (saying he "used every dirty trick in the bag"), and Richard Nixon of California (whom he later called "the most dishonest individual I have ever met in my life").[77] After Goldwater again became a senator, he urged Nixon to resign at the height of the Watergate scandal, warning that fewer than 10 senators would vote against conviction if Nixon were impeached by the House of Representatives.[78] The term "Goldwater moment" has since been used to describe situations when influential members of Congress disagree so strongly with a president from their own party that they openly oppose him.[citation needed] Goldwater and the revival of American conservatism Although Goldwater was not as important in the American conservative movement as Ronald Reagan after 1965, he shaped and redefined the movement from the late 1950s to 1964. Arizona Senator John McCain, who had succeeded Goldwater in the Senate in 1987, summed up Goldwater's legacy, "He transformed the Republican Party from an Eastern elitist organization to the breeding ground for the election of Ronald Reagan."[79] Columnist George Will remarked after the 1980 presidential election that it took 16 years to count the votes from 1964 and Goldwater won.[80] The Republican Party recovered from the 1964 election debacle, acquiring 47 seats in the House of Representatives in the 1966 mid-term election. Further Republican successes ensued, including Goldwater's return to the Senate in 1969. In January of that year, Goldwater wrote an article in the National Review "affirming that he [was] not against liberals, that liberals are needed as a counterweight to conservatism, and that he had in mind a fine liberal like Max Lerner".[81] Goldwater was a strong supporter of environmental protection. He explained his position in 1969: I feel very definitely that the [Nixon] administration is absolutely correct in cracking down on companies and corporations and municipalities that continue to pollute the nation's air and water. While I am a great believer in the free competitive enterprise system and all that it entails, I am an even stronger believer in the right of our people to live in a clean and pollution-free environment. To this end, it is my belief that when pollution is found, it should be halted at the source, even if this requires stringent government action against important segments of our national economy.[82] Throughout the 1970s, as the conservative wing under Reagan gained control of the party, Goldwater concentrated on his Senate duties, especially in military affairs. He played little part in the election or administration of Richard Nixon, but he helped force Nixon's resignation in 1974.[83] In 1976 he helped block Rockefeller's renomination as vice president. When Reagan challenged Ford for the presidential nomination in 1976, Goldwater endorsed Ford, looking for consensus rather than conservative idealism. As one historian notes, "The Arizonan had lost much of his zest for battle."[84][85][86] In 1979, when President Carter normalized relations with Communist China, Goldwater and some other Senators sued him in the Supreme Court, arguing that the President could not terminate the Sino-American Mutual Defense Treaty with Republic of China (Taiwan) without the approval of Congress. The case, Goldwater v. Carter 444 U.S. 996, was dismissed by the court as a political question. Later life Signing autographs at the Fiesta Bowl parade in 1983 By the 1980s, with Ronald Reagan as president and the growing involvement of the religious right in conservative politics, Goldwater's libertarian views on personal issues were revealed; he believed that they were an integral part of true conservatism. Goldwater viewed abortion as a matter of personal choice and as such supported abortion rights.[87] As a passionate defender of personal liberty, he saw the religious right's views as an encroachment on personal privacy and individual liberties.[88] In his 1980 Senate reelection campaign, Goldwater won support from religious conservatives but in his final term voted consistently to uphold legalized abortion and in 1981 gave a speech on how he was angry about the bullying of American politicians by religious organizations, and would "fight them every step of the way".[89][90][91] Goldwater also disagreed with the Reagan administration on certain aspects of foreign policy (for example, he opposed the decision to mine Nicaraguan harbors). Notwithstanding his prior differences with Dwight D. Eisenhower, Goldwater in a 1986 interview rated him the best of the seven presidents with whom he had worked.[citation needed] He introduced the 1984 Cable Franchise Policy and Communications Act, which allowed local governments to require the transmission of public, educational, and government access (PEG) channels, barred cable operators from exercising editorial control over content of programs carried on PEG channels, and absolved them from liability for their content. On May 12, 1986, Goldwater was presented with the Presidential Medal of Freedom by President Ronald Reagan. After his retirement in 1987, Goldwater described the Arizona Governor Evan Mecham as "hardheaded" and called on him to resign, and two years later stated that the Republican party had been taken over by a "bunch of kooks".[92] In 1987 he received the Langley Gold Medal from the Smithsonian Institution. In 1988, Princeton University's American Whig-Cliosophic Society awarded Goldwater the James Madison Award for Distinguished Public Service in recognition of his career.[93] In a 1994 interview with The Washington Post, the retired senator said, When you say "radical right" today, I think of these moneymaking ventures by fellows like Pat Robertson and others who are trying to take the Republican party and make a religious organization out of it. If that ever happens, kiss politics goodbye.[94] President Ronald Reagan and Senator Goldwater award retired General Jimmy Doolittle, USAFR, with a fourth star, April 10, 1985 Goldwater visited the small town of Bowen, Illinois, in 1989 to see where his mother was raised. In response to Moral Majority founder Jerry Falwell's opposition to the nomination of Sandra Day O'Connor to the Supreme Court, of which Falwell had said, "Every good Christian should be concerned", Goldwater retorted: "Every good Christian ought to kick Falwell right in the ass."[95][96] According to John Dean, Goldwater actually suggested that good Christians ought to kick Falwell in the "nuts", but the news media "changed the anatomical reference".[97][page needed] Goldwater also had harsh words for his one-time political protegé, President Reagan, particularly after the Iran–Contra Affair became public in 1986. Journalist Robert MacNeil, a friend of Goldwater's from the 1964 presidential campaign, recalled interviewing him in his office shortly afterward. "He was sitting in his office with his hands on his cane... and he said to me, 'Well, aren't you going to ask me about the Iran arms sales?' It had just been announced that the Reagan administration had sold arms to Iran. And I said, 'Well, if I asked you, what would you say?' He said, 'I'd say it's the god-damned stupidest foreign policy blunder this country's ever made!'",[98] although aside from the Iran–Contra scandal, Goldwater thought nonetheless that Reagan was a good president.[99] In 1988 during that year's presidential campaign, he pointedly told vice-presidential nominee Dan Quayle at a campaign event in Arizona "I want you to go back and tell George Bush to start talking about the issues."[100] Some of Goldwater's statements in the 1990s alienated many social conservatives. He endorsed Democrat Karan English in an Arizona congressional race, urged Republicans to lay off Bill Clinton over the Whitewater scandal, and criticized the military's ban on homosexuals:[94] He said that "Everyone knows that gays have served honorably in the military since at least the time of Julius Caesar"[101] and that "You don't need to be 'straight' to fight and die for your country. You just need to shoot straight."[102] A few years before his death, he addressed establishment Republicans by saying, "Do not associate my name with anything you do. You are extremists, and you've hurt the Republican party much more than the Democrats have."[103] In 1996, he told Bob Dole, whose own presidential campaign received lukewarm support from conservative Republicans: "We're the new liberals of the Republican party. Can you imagine that?"[104] In that same year, with Senator Dennis DeConcini, Goldwater endorsed an Arizona initiative to legalize medical marijuana against the countervailing opinion of social conservatives.[105] Hobbies and interests Amateur radio Goldwater was an avid amateur radio operator from the early 1920s onwards, with the call signs 6BPI, K3UIG and K7UGA.[106][107] The last is now used by an Arizona club honoring him as a commemorative call. During the Vietnam War he was a Military Affiliate Radio System (MARS) operator.[108] Goldwater was a prominent spokesman for amateur radio and its enthusiasts. Beginning in 1969 up to his death he appeared in numerous educational and promotional films (and later videos) about the hobby that were produced for the American Radio Relay League (the United States national society representing the interests of radio amateurs) by such producers as Dave Bell (W6AQ), ARRL Southwest Director John R. Griggs (W6KW), Alan Kaul (W6RCL), Forrest Oden (N6ENV), and the late Roy Neal (K6DUE). His first appearance was in Dave Bell's The World of Amateur Radio where Goldwater discussed the history of the hobby and demonstrated a live contact with Antarctica. His last on-screen appearance dealing with "ham radio" was in 1994, explaining a then-upcoming, Earth-orbiting ham radio relay satellite. Electronics was a hobby for Goldwater beyond amateur radio. He enjoyed assembling Heathkits,[109] completing more than 100 and often visiting their maker in Benton Harbor, Michigan, to buy more, before the company exited the kit business in 1992.[110] Kachina dolls Most of the kachina dolls at the Heard Museum were donated by Goldwater In 1916 Goldwater visited the Hopi Reservation with Phoenix architect John Rinker Kibby, and obtained his first kachina doll. Eventually his doll collection included 437 items and was presented in 1969 to the Heard Museum in Phoenix.[111] Photography Goldwater was an amateur photographer and in his estate left some 15,000 of his images to three Arizona institutions. He was very keen on candid photography. He got started in photography after receiving a camera as a gift from his wife on their first Christmas together. He was known to use a 4×5 Graflex, Rolleiflex, 16 mm Bell and Howell motion picture camera, and 35 mm Nikkormat FT. He was a member of the Royal Photographic Society from 1941 becoming a Life Member in 1948.[112] For decades, he contributed photographs of his home state to Arizona Highways and was best known for his Western landscapes and pictures of native Americans in the United States. Three books with his photographs are People and Places, from 1967; Barry Goldwater and the Southwest, from 1976; and Delightful Journey, first published in 1940 and reprinted in 1970. Ansel Adams wrote a foreword to the 1976 book.[113] Goldwater's photography interests occasionally crossed over with his political career. John F. Kennedy, as president, was known to invite former congressional colleagues to the White House for a drink. On one occasion, Goldwater brought his camera and photographed President Kennedy. When Kennedy received the photo, he returned it to Goldwater, with the inscription, "For Barry Goldwater—Whom I urge to follow the career for which he has shown such talent—photography!—from his friend – John Kennedy." This quip became a classic of American political humor after it was made famous by humorist Bennett Cerf. The photo itself was prized by Goldwater for the rest of his life, and recently sold for $17,925 in a Heritage auction.[114] Son Michael Prescott Goldwater formed the Goldwater Family Foundation with the goal of making his father's photography available via the internet. (Barry Goldwater Photographs) was launched in September 2006 to coincide with the HBO documentary Mr. Conservative, produced by granddaughter CC Goldwater. UFOs On March 28, 1975, Goldwater wrote to Shlomo Arnon: "The subject of UFOs has interested me for some long time. About ten or twelve years ago I made an effort to find out what was in the building at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base where the information has been stored that has been collected by the Air Force, and I was understandably denied this request. It is still classified above Top Secret."[115] Goldwater further wrote that there were rumors the evidence would be released, and that he was "just as anxious to see this material as you are, and I hope we will not have to wait much longer".[115] The April 25, 1988 issue of The New Yorker carried an interview where Goldwater said he repeatedly asked his friend, General Curtis LeMay, if there was any truth to the rumors that UFO evidence was stored in a secret room at Wright-Patterson, and if he (Goldwater) might have access to the room. According to Goldwater, an angry LeMay gave him "holy hell" and said, "Not only can't you get into it but don't you ever mention it to me again."[116] In a 1988 interview on Larry King's radio show, Goldwater was asked if he thought the U.S. Government was withholding UFO evidence; he replied "Yes, I do." He added: I certainly believe in aliens in space. They may not look like us, but I have very strong feelings that they have advanced beyond our mental capabilities... I think some highly secret government UFO investigations are going on that we don't know about—and probably never will unless the Air Force discloses them.[117][unreliable fringe source?] Goldwater Scholarship The Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Program was established by Congress in 1986.[118] Its goal is to provide a continuing source of highly qualified scientists, mathematicians, and engineers by awarding scholarships to college students who intend to pursue careers in these fields. The Scholarship is widely considered the most prestigious award in the U.S. conferred upon undergraduates studying the sciences. It is awarded to about 300 students (college sophomores and juniors) nationwide in the amount of $7,500 per academic year (for their senior year, or junior and senior years).[119] It honors Goldwater's keen interest in science and technology. Death The Goldwater Crypt #64 Goldwater's public appearances ended in late 1996 after he suffered a massive stroke; family members then disclosed he was in the early stages of Alzheimer's disease. He died on May 29, 1998, at the age of 89 at his long-time home in Paradise Valley, Arizona, of complications from the stroke.[120] His funeral was co-officiated by both a reverend and a rabbi.[121][122] His ashes were buried at the Episcopal Christ Church of the Ascension in Paradise Valley, Arizona. A memorial statue set in a small park has been erected to honor the memory of Goldwater in that town, near his former home and current resting place. Legacy Buildings and monuments Barry M. Goldwater Terminal 4 entrance at Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport Barry Goldwater statue in National Statuary Hall in Washington, D.C. The Barry Goldwater Memorial Park Among the buildings and monuments named after Barry Goldwater are: the Barry M. Goldwater Terminal at Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport, Goldwater Memorial Park[123] in Paradise Valley, Arizona, the Barry Goldwater Air Force Academy Visitor Center at the United States Air Force Academy, and Barry Goldwater High School in northern Phoenix. In 2010, former Arizona Attorney General Grant Woods, himself a Goldwater scholar and supporter, founded the Goldwater Women's Tennis Classic Tournament to be held annually at the Phoenix Country Club in Phoenix.[124] On February 11, 2015, a statue of Goldwater by Deborah Copenhaver Fellows was unveiled by U.S. House and Senate leaders at a dedication ceremony in National Statuary Hall of the U.S. Capitol building in Washington, D.C.[125] Barry Goldwater Peak is the highest peak in the White Tank Mountains.[126] Documentary Goldwater's granddaughter, CC Goldwater, has co-produced with longtime friend and independent film producer Tani L. Cohen a documentary on Goldwater's life, Mr. Conservative: Goldwater on Goldwater, first shown on HBO on September 18, 2006.[127] In popular culture In his song "I Shall Be Free No. 10", Bob Dylan refers to Goldwater: "I'm liberal to a degree, I want everybody to be free. But if you think I'll let Barry Goldwater move in next door and marry my daughter, you must think I'm crazy."[128] Military awards Command Pilot Badge Service Pilot Badge (former U.S. Army Air Forces rating) Legion of Merit Air Medal Army Commendation Medal American Defense Service Medal American Campaign Medal European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal Asiatic-Pacific Campaign Medal with campaign star World War II Victory Medal Armed Forces Reserve Medal with three bronze hourglasses Other awards Presidential Medal of Freedom (1986) American Legion Distinguished Service Medal Marconi Gold Medal, Veteran Wireless Operators Association (1968) Marconi Medal of Achievement (1968) Bob Hope Five Star Civilian Award (1976) Good Citizenship Award, Daughters of the American Revolution 33rd Degree Mason The Douglas MacArthur Memorial Award Top Gun Award, Luke Air Force Base Order of Fifinella Award – Champion of the Women Air Force Service Pilots (WASP) (1978) Thomas D. White National Defense Award 1978 Conservative Digest Award (1980) Senator John Warner Award for Public Service in the field of Nuclear Disarmament (1983) Alexander M. Haig, Jr. Memorial Award (1983) National Congress of American Indians Congressional Award (1985) Space Pioneer Award, Sixth Space Development Conference (1987) James Madison Award, American Whig-Cliosophic Society (1988) National Aviation Hall of Fame (1982)[129] Books The Conscience of a Conservative. 1960 ISBN 978-0895265401 Why Not Victory? A Fresh Look at American Policy. 1963. OCLC 25326755 Where I Stand. New York, NY: McGraw Hill, 1964. LCCN 64-25853 Chinese translation available. Conscience of a Majority. 1971. ISBN 978-0671780968 The Coming Breakpoint. 1976. ISBN 978-0025446113 Arizona. Chicago, IL: Rand McNally, 1977. ISBN 978-0938379041 LCCN 78-7098 136 pages. With No Apologies: The Personal and Political Memoirs of Senator Barry M. Goldwater. 1980. ISBN 978-0688035471 Goldwater (Autobiography). 1988. ISBN 978-0385239479 Relatives Goldwater's son Barry Goldwater Jr. served as a Congressman from California from 1969 to 1983. He was the first Congressman to serve while having a father in the Senate. Goldwater's uncle Morris Goldwater served in the Arizona territorial and state legislatures and as mayor of Prescott, Arizona. Goldwater's nephew Don Goldwater sought the Arizona Republican Party nomination for Governor of Arizona in 2006, but he was defeated by Len Munsil. See also Electoral history of Barry Goldwater Goldwater Institute Goldwater rule Notes ^ Internet Accuracy Project, Senator Barry Goldwater. Retrieved September 23, 2010. ^ Poole, Robert (August–September 1998), "In memoriam: Barry Goldwater", Reason (Obituary), archived from the original on June 28, 2009 ^ Kurt F. Stone (2010). The Jews of Capitol Hill: A Compendium of Jewish Congressional Members. Scarecrow Press. p. 191. ISBN 9780810877382. ^ Evans, Harold; Buckland, Gail; Baker, Kevin (1998). The American Century. Knopf. p. 515. ISBN 0-679-41070-8. The first major candidate known to be of ethnic Jewish origin, Goldwater used to joke that only half of him could join an exclusive country club. ^ Murray Friedman (2006). The Neoconservative Revolution: Jewish Intellectuals and the Shaping of Public Policy. Cambridge University Press. pp. 96–97. Goldwater did not run as a Jew and did not seek the support of other Jews. He did not go out of his way to support Israel, either. On the other hand, he never disavowed his Jewish antecedents. ... Whether Goldwater should be seen as Jewish is an open question. ^ White 1965, p. 217. ^ Kathleen Garcia (2008). Early Phoenix. Arcadia Publishing. p. 62. ISBN 9780738548395. ^ Zornik, George. "Thoroughly modern grandmothers". High beam. Archived from the original on April 30, 2013. Retrieved March 3, 2012. ^ "Barry Goldwater". The Washington Post. May 13, 1997. Retrieved March 30, 2010. ^ Goldberg 1995, p. 21. ^ a b c Clymer, Adam (May 29, 1998). "Barry Goldwater, Conservative and Individualist, Dies at 89". The New York Times. Archived from the original on March 7, 2013. ^ "Worship: Goldwater's Faith". Time. August 28, 1964. Archived from the original on August 23, 2013. Retrieved March 3, 2012. ^ Goldberg 1995, pp. 22–27, esp. 27. ^ A Jewish essayist famously remarked of Goldwater: Golden, Harry Golden (November 22, 1963), "The Taboo", Time, archived from the original on August 17, 2013, I have always thought that if a Jew ever became President, he would turn out to be an Episcopalian. ^ a b Malakoff, L.E. (1928). Blue & Gold Yearbook (PDF). Staunton Military Academy. Retrieved April 19, 2019. ^ United States Congress. "Barry Goldwater (id: G000267)". Biographical Directory of the United States Congress. ^ Goldberg, 1995 & pp. 41–42, 48–49, 326, 332. sfn error: no target: CITEREFGoldberg1995pp._41–42,_48–49,_326,_332 (help) ^ 'State Mourns Death of Morris Goldwater,' The Arizona Republic, April 12, 1939, p. 1 ^ Rich, Frank (1998). "Journal; The Right Stuff". The New York Times. ^ "Life". Books. September 18, 1964. Retrieved March 3, 2012. ^ "Major General Barry M Goldwater". U.S. Air Force. Archived from the original on March 31, 2013. ^ Harris, Don (March 12, 2012). "The Gold Standard: Barry Goldwater's 30-year U.S. Senate career made him an icon in Arizona politics". Arizona Capital Times. ^ Lavender, David (1985), River Runners of the Grand Canyon, ISBN 978-0-8165-0940-9 ^ Robert Alan Goldberg, Barry Goldwater (1995) pp. 67–98 ^ "A Look at the Life of Barry Goldwater". The Washington Post. June 5, 1998. Archived from the original on September 14, 2000. Retrieved March 30, 2010. ^ Edwards, Lee (1995) Goldwater: The Man Who Made a Revolution p.231 ^ Barnes, Bart (May 30, 1998). "Barry Goldwater, GOP Hero, Dies". The Washington Post. Retrieved October 4, 2014. ^ Edwards, Lee (1995). Goldwater: the man who made a revolution. Washington, D.C.: Regnery Publishing. p. 89. ISBN 0895264714. ^ Perlstein, Rick (2009). Before the Storm: Barry Goldwater and the Unmaking of the American Consensus. Nation Books. p. 33. ISBN 978-1568584126. OCLC 938852638. ^ Edwards, p 57 ^ Edwards, p 233 ^ Perlstein, p 147 ^ Perlstein, Rick (2009). Before the storm : Barry Goldwater and the unmaking of the American consensus. Nation. p. 344. ISBN 9781568584126. OCLC 938852638. ^ Lee, Edwards (1995). Goldwater : the man who made a revolution. Washington, D.C.: Regnery Publishing. p. 267. ISBN 0895264714. ^ Adams, John (2012). In the Trenches: Adventures in Journalism and Public Affairs. pp. 73–. ISBN 9781462067831. ^ Andrews, Robert ed. (1997). Famous Lines: A Columbia Dictionary of Familiar Quotations. p. 159. ISBN 9780231102186.CS1 maint: extra text: authors list (link) ^ McLellan, Dennis (October 24, 2002). "Denison Kitchel, 94; Ran Goldwater's Presidential Bid". Los Angeles Times. Archived from the original on November 6, 2013. Retrieved June 2, 2013. ^ Tannenwald, Nina (2006). "Nuclear Weapons and the Vietnam War" (PDF). The Journal of Strategic Studies. 29 (4): 675–722. doi:10.1080/01402390600766148. Archived from the original (PDF) on November 1, 2013. Retrieved May 8, 2013. ^ Matthews 2002 ^ Lapham, Lewis H. (September 2004). "Tentacles of Rage: The Republican propaganda mill, a brief history". Harper's Magazine. 309 (1852). Archived from the original on October 12, 2009. ^ Our Defense: a Crucial Issue for Candidates. Life. September 25, 1964. p. 11. Retrieved March 3, 2012. ^ "Goldwater ad". Livingroomcandidate.org. September 7, 1964. Archived from the original on October 20, 2013. Retrieved March 3, 2012. ^ "Goldwater ad". Livingroomcandidate.org. September 7, 1964. Archived from the original on October 20, 2013. Retrieved March 3, 2012. ^ Richard A. Friedman (May 23, 2011). "How a Telescopic Lens Muddles Psychiatric Insights". The New York Times. Archived from the original on April 1, 2014. Retrieved May 24, 2011. ^ "Libel: Fact, Fiction, Doubt & Barry". Time. May 17, 1968. Archived from the original on June 24, 2013. Retrieved March 3, 2012. ^ "Ginzburg v. Goldwater, 396 U.S. 1049 (1970)". Caselaw.lp.findlaw.com. Archived from the original on June 15, 2013. Retrieved March 3, 2012. ^ "Wikipedia site filled with major mistakes". Daily Record. April 11, 2006. [permanent dead link] ^ ""Daisy" ad". Livingroomcandidate.org. September 7, 1964. Archived from the original on April 26, 2014. Retrieved March 3, 2012. ^ Leffler, Warren K. "Ku Klux Klan members supporting Barry Goldwater's campaign for the presidential nomination at the Republican National Convention, San Francisco, California, as an African American man pushes signs back". Library of Congress. Retrieved August 8, 2015. ^ "1964 Johnson defeats Goldwater for presidency". History. Retrieved August 8, 2015. ^ "1964 Johnson vs. Goldwater". The Living Room Candidate. Retrieved August 8, 2015. ^ Diamond, Edwin; Bates, Stephen (1992). The Spot: The Rise of Political Advertising on Television. MIT Press. p. 132. ISBN 0-262-54065-7. Retrieved August 10, 2015. ^ Dallek, Robert (January 8, 2004). Lyndon B. Johnson : Portrait of a President: Portrait of a President. New York: Oxford University Press. p. 186. ISBN 0-19-972859-3. Retrieved August 10, 2015. ^ Mohr, Charles. "Goldwater Bars Klan Aid". The New York Times. Retrieved August 10, 2015. ^ "Ike at Gettysburg", Living room candidate (campaign ad), Goldwater, 1964, archived from the original on October 19, 2013 ^ Polsky, Andrew (November 30, 2015). The Eisenhower Presidency: Lessons for the Twenty-First Century (1st ed.). Lexington Books. pp. 33, 296. ISBN 978-1-4985-2220-5. Retrieved November 22, 2016. ^ "Eastern Seabord", Living room candidate (campaign ad), Johnson, 1964, archived from the original on October 20, 2013 ^ "Social Security", Living room candidate (campaign ad), Johnson, 1964, archived from the original on October 20, 2013 ^ Sabato, Larry (October 27, 2014). "How Goldwater Changed Campaigns Forever" (October 27, 2014). Politico. Retrieved November 22, 2016. ^ "The Living Room Candidate – Commercials – 1964 – Ronald Reagan" (ad). Goldwater. September 7, 1964. Archived from the original on October 20, 2013. Retrieved March 3, 2012. ^ Reagan, Ronald (October 27, 1964), A Time for Choosing (televised address on behalf of Barry Goldwater), Los Angeles, CA, archived from the original on February 14, 2014 ^ a b Cosman, Bernard (1966), Five States for Goldwater: Continuity and change in Southern presidential voting patterns ^ Charles S Bullock III, and Mark J. Rozell, The Oxford Handbook of Southern Politics (2012) p. 303 ^ Goldberg, Barry Goldwater pp. 232–37 ^ Kornacki, Steve (February 3, 2011) The "Southern Strategy", fulfilled, Salon (website)Salon Archived April 13, 2011, at the Wayback Machine ^ Rodriguez, Daniel; Weingast, Barry R. (July 2006). "How the GOP Helped the Democrats Destroy the Solid South" (PDF). Stanford University. Archived from the original (PDF) on July 16, 2011. Retrieved January 7, 2007. ^ Edwards, Lee (2008). "Goldwater, Barry (1909–1998)". In Hamowy, Ronald (ed.). The Encyclopedia of Libertarianism. Thousand Oaks, CA: SAGE; Cato Institute. pp. 211–12. doi:10.4135/9781412965811.n127. ISBN 978-1-4129-6580-4. LCCN 2008009151. OCLC 750831024. [He] opposed Big Government, Big Business, Big Labor, and Big Media. ^ "Schulz, William" (PDF). ahfweb.org. Tempe, Arizona: Arizona Historical Foundation. Retrieved November 1, 2019. ^ Goldberg 1995, chapter 12. ^ YouTube, archived from the original on November 4, 2010 ^ Donaldson 2003, p. 20. ^ Donaldson 2003, pp. 152–79. ^ Goldberg, Barry Goldwater (1995) pp. 88–90 ^ Morgenthau, Hans J (September 1964), "Goldwater – The Romantic Regression", Commentary ^ "Red China Admitted to UN: 1971 Year in Review". United Press International. December 28, 1971. Archived from the original on May 3, 2009. Retrieved March 3, 2012. ^ Goldwater 1980, p. 161: "When that assassin's bullet ended the life of John Fitzgerald Kennedy in Dallas on November 22, 1963, it was for me a great personal loss." sfn error: no target: CITEREFGoldwater1980 (help) ^ a b Mr. Conservative: Goldwater on Goldwater (documentary film), HBO, archived from the original on April 7, 2014 ^ Goldberg 1995, p. 282. ^ Grove, Lloyd (July 28, 1994). "Barry Goldwater's Left Turn". The Washington Post. Archived from the original on September 14, 2000. Retrieved October 25, 2008. ^ Will, George (May 31, 1998). "The Cheerful Malcontent". The Washington Post. Retrieved May 7, 2019. ^ Rothbard, Murray N.. "Confessions of a Right-Wing Liberal". Ludwig von Mises Institute. Archived April 30, 2009, at the Wayback Machine ^ Barry Goldwater, The Conscience of a Majority (1969) in Brian Allen Drake, "The Skeptical Environmentalist: Senator Barry Goldwater and the Environmental Management State", Environmental History, (2010) 15#4 pp. 587–611, p. 589 ^ "The Last Week: The Unmaking of the President". Time. August 19, 1974. Archived from the original on September 17, 2012. Retrieved March 3, 2012. ^ Kolkey, Jonathan Martin. The New Right, 1960–1968: With Epilogue, 1969–1980. University Press of America. 1983. quote p. 254 ^ Brennan, Mary C. Turning Right in the Sixties: The Conservative Capture of the GOP. University of North Carolina Press. 1995. ch. 6 ^ Reinhard, David W. The Republican Right since 1945. University Press of Kentucky. 1983, p. 230. ^ Goldberg 1995, p. 331. ^ Goldberg 1995, p. 315. ^ "WWBD: What Would Barry Do", Piece of mind, Word press, November 10, 2006, archived from the original on October 29, 2013 ^ Goldwater (September 17, 1981), "The 'New Right' Has Nothing to Do with the 'Old Conservatism'", Los Angeles Times ^ The God Delusion, p. 39 ^ Goldberg 1995, p. 329. ^ Item in KAA (PDF), UN, archived from the original (PDF) on December 26, 2012 ^ a b Grove, Lloyd (July 28, 1994), "Barry Goldwater's Left Turn", The Washington Post, p. C01 ^ Magnuson, Ed (July 20, 1981), "The Brethren's First Sister", Time, archived from the original on January 15, 2007 ^ Goldberg, Barry Goldwater, p. 315 ^ Dean, John (2008), Broken Government, Penguin ^ MacNeil, Robert, "Part 5 of 14", Interview (video) (archive), American Television ^ Rose, Charlie, "Goldwater tribute", YouTube, archived from the original on June 6, 2015 ^ Dowd, Maureen (June 13, 1988). "Campaign Trail; Outspoken Advice From a G.O.P. Hero". The New York Times. Retrieved June 13, 2008. ^ "Ban on Gays Is Senseless Attempt To Stall The Inevitable", Los Angeles Times, CMU, archived from the original on October 21, 2012 ^ Goldberg, Barry Goldwater, p. 332 ^ Bugliosi, Vincent (2001), The Betrayal of America, p. 19, ISBN 978-1-56025-355-6 ^ "Conservative pioneer became an outcast". The Arizona republic. May 31, 1998. Retrieved March 3, 2012. ^ "Prescription: Drugs", Reason, archived from the original on September 3, 2009 ^ "An Afternoon with Senator Goldwater". Smecc.org. Archived from the original on January 4, 2014. Retrieved March 3, 2012. ^ "FCC K7UGA record". Wireless2.fcc.gov. May 29, 1998. Archived from the original on January 4, 2014. Retrieved March 3, 2012. ^ "Major General Barry M. Goldwater". af.mil. U.S. Air Force. Retrieved November 22, 2016. ^ Shea, Tom (September 13, 1982). "Buckley finds word processing on Z-89 'liberating'". InfoWorld. p. 26. Retrieved January 9, 2015. ^ Fisher, Lawrence M. "Plug Is Pulled on Heathkits, Ending a Do-It-Yourself Era" The New York Times, March 30, 1992. ^ "Goldwater Kachinas a public treasure". The Arizona Republic. December 3, 1986. Retrieved March 3, 2012. ^ Information provided by The Royal Photographic Society, United Kingdom, dated October 6, 2011, "Royal Photographic Society". Archived April 2, 2014, at the Wayback Machine ^ Arizona Republic, May 31, 1998 ^ "Heritage Auctions description of signed Kennedy photo". Historical.ha.com. November 17, 2010. Archived from the original on February 21, 2011. Retrieved March 3, 2012. ^ a b "FOIA documents". Anomalies. Archived from the original on March 7, 2012. Retrieved March 3, 2012. ^ Bernstein, Burton (April 25, 1988). "AuH2O". The New Yorker. 43, 71. ^ Cooke, P. "UFO Quotations – The United States Congress". Bible UFO. Archived from the original on April 8, 2013. Retrieved March 3, 2012. ^ "Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Program". ACT, Inc. Archived from the original on October 22, 2013. Retrieved August 21, 2013. ^ "Bulletin of Information for the 2013–2014 Competition". Goldwater Scholarship Program. Archived from the original on September 16, 2008. Retrieved August 21, 2013. ^ Biographical Directory of the United States Congress, Goldwater, Barry Morris, (1909–1988). Retrieved January 1, 2007. Archived June 25, 2013, at the Wayback Machine ^ Stone, Kurt F. (December 29, 2010). The Jews of Capitol Hill. ISBN 9780810877382. ^ "Arizona Jews recall Goldwater's ties to community". The Jewish News Weekly of Northern California. ^ "Barry Goldwater Memorial in PV". Phoenixmarkettrends.com. March 4, 2008. Archived from the original on March 30, 2009. Retrieved March 3, 2012. ^ "Goldwater Women's Classic". Phoenix Country Club. Archived from the original on April 25, 2012. Retrieved July 16, 2012. ^ "Statue of Arizona's Barry M. Goldwater Dedicated at the U.S. Capitol". February 11, 2015. Archived from the original on June 26, 2015. Retrieved June 25, 2015. ^ "Barry Goldwater Peak". Geographic Names Information System. United States Geological Survey. ^ Solomon, Deborah (August 27, 2006), "Goldwater Girl", The New York Times (interview with CC Goldwater), archived from the original on April 25, 2009, retrieved January 1, 2007 ^ Beckwith, Francis J. (2015). Taking Rites Seriously: Law, Politics, and the Reasonableness of Faith. New York City: Cambridge University Press. p. 172. ISBN 978-1-107-11272-8. ^ "Hall of Famer". Beatrice Daily Sun. Beatrice, Nebraska. Associated Press. July 26, 1982. p. 3 – via Newspapers.com. References Primary Gallup, George H, ed. (1972), The Gallup Poll: Public Opinion, 1935–1971, 3 Hess, Karl (1967), In A Cause That Will Triumph: The Goldwater Campaign and the Future of Conservatism (memoir), OCLC 639505 by Goldwater's speechwriter Secondary Brennan, Mary C (1995), Turning Right in the Sixties: The Conservative Capture of the GOP, University of North Carolina Press, ISBN 978-0807858646 Donaldson, Gary (2003), Liberalism's last hurrah: the presidential campaign of 1964, ISBN 978-0765611192 Edwards, Lee (1997), Goldwater: The Man Who Made a Revolution (biography), ISBN 978-0895264305 Goldberg, Robert Alan (1995), Barry Goldwater, ISBN 978-0300072570 , the standard scholarly biography Hodgson, Godfrey (1996), The World Turned Right Side Up: A History of the Conservative Ascendancy in America, ISBN 978-0395822944 Matthews, Jeffrey J (1997), "To Defeat a Maverick: The Goldwater Candidacy Revisited, 1963–1964", Presidential Studies Quarterly, 27 (1): 662+ Perlstein, Rick (2001), Before the Storm: Barry Goldwater and the Unmaking of the American Consensus, New York: Hill & Wang, ISBN 978-0-8090-2859-7 Shepard, Christopher. "A True Jeffersonian: The Western Conservative Principles of Barry Goldwater and His Vote Against the Civil Rights Act of 1964." Journal of the West. 49, no. 1, (2010): 34–40 Shermer, Elizabeth Tandy (ed.) (2013). Barry Goldwater and the Remaking of the American Political Landscape. Tucson, AZ: University of Arizona Press, 2013. ISBN 978-0816521098 Smith, Dean. The Goldwaters of Arizona (1986), includes brief coverage of the parents. ISBN 978-0873583954 White, Theodore (1965), The Making of the President: 1964, ISBN 978-0061900617 External links Barry Goldwaterat Wikipedia's sister projects Media from Wikimedia Commons Quotations from Wikiquote Texts from Wikisource Data from Wikidata United States Congress. "Barry Goldwater (id: G000267)". Biographical Directory of the United States Congress. Appearances on C-SPAN "Barry Goldwater, Presidential Contender" from C-SPAN's The Contenders The Goldwater Institute Speech delivered by Barry Goldwater to the Comstock Club of Sacramento, California on June 22, 1966 Party political offices Preceded by Ward Powers Republican nominee for U.S. Senator from Arizona (Class 1) 1952, 1958 Succeeded by Paul Fannin Preceded by Styles Bridges Chair of the National Republican Senatorial Committee 1955–1957 Succeeded by Everett Dirksen Preceded by Andrew Schoeppel Chair of the National Republican Senatorial Committee 1961–1963 Succeeded by Thruston Morton Preceded by Richard Nixon Republican nominee for President of the United States 1964 Succeeded by Richard Nixon Preceded by Evan Mecham Republican nominee for U.S. Senator from Arizona (Class 3) 1968, 1974, 1980 Succeeded by John McCain U.S. Senate Preceded by Ernest McFarland U.S. Senator (Class 1) from Arizona 1953–1965 Served alongside: Carl Hayden Succeeded by Paul Fannin Preceded by Carl Hayden U.S. Senator (Class 3) from Arizona 1969–1987 Served alongside: Paul Fannin, Dennis DeConcini Succeeded by John McCain Preceded by Birch Bayh Chair of the Senate Intelligence Committee 1981–1985 Succeeded by David Durenberger Preceded by John Tower Chair of the Senate Armed Services Committee 1985–1987 Succeeded by Sam Nunn v t e Barry Goldwater Political career Electoral history of Barry Goldwater Alaska Mental Health Enabling Act 1964 presidential campaign Goldwater v. Carter Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984 Goldwater–Nichols Act Elections 1952 1958 1964 Republican National Convention 1964 United States presidential election 1968 1974 1980 Family and personal life Barry Goldwater Jr. (son) Morris Goldwater (uncle) Don Goldwater (nephew) Other Barry Goldwater (statue) The Conscience of a Conservative Goldwater's (department store) The Goldwaters (musical group) Goldwater v. Ginzburg Goldwater rule Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship Goldwater Institute Category Commons v t e United States senators from Arizona Class 1 Ashurst McFarland Goldwater Fannin DeConcini Kyl Flake Sinema Class 3 Smith Cameron Hayden Goldwater McCain Kyl McSally v t e Unsuccessful major party candidates for President of the United States Thomas Jefferson (1796) John Adams (1800) Charles C. Pinckney (1804, 1808) DeWitt Clinton (1812) Rufus King (1816) Andrew Jackson (1824) William H. Crawford (1824) Henry Clay (1824, 1832, 1844) John Quincy Adams (1828) William Henry Harrison (1836) Hugh Lawson White (1836) Martin Van Buren (1840) Lewis Cass (1848) Winfield Scott (1852) John C. Frémont (1856) Stephen A. Douglas (1860) George B. McClellan (1864) Horatio Seymour (1868) Horace Greeley (1872) Samuel J. Tilden (1876) Winfield Scott Hancock (1880) James G. Blaine (1884) Grover Cleveland (1888) Benjamin Harrison (1892) William J. Bryan (1896, 1900, 1908) Alton B. Parker (1904) William Howard Taft (1912) Charles Evans Hughes (1916) James M. Cox (1920) John W. Davis (1924) Al Smith (1928) Herbert Hoover (1932) Alf Landon (1936) Wendell Willkie (1940) Thomas E. Dewey (1944, 1948) Adlai Stevenson (1952, 1956) Richard Nixon (1960) Barry Goldwater (1964) Hubert Humphrey (1968) George McGovern (1972) Gerald Ford (1976) Jimmy Carter (1980) Walter Mondale (1984) Michael Dukakis (1988) George H. W. Bush (1992) Bob Dole (1996) Al Gore (2000) John Kerry (2004) John McCain (2008) Mitt Romney (2012) Hillary Clinton (2016) All presidential candidates Presidents Third party candidates v t e United States Republican Party Presidential tickets and National Conventions 1856 (Philadelphia): Frémont/Dayton 1860 (Chicago): Lincoln/Hamlin 1864 (Baltimore): Lincoln/Johnson 1868 (Chicago): Grant/Colfax 1872 (Philadelphia): Grant/Wilson 1876 (Cincinnati): Hayes/Wheeler 1880 (Chicago): Garfield/Arthur 1884 (Chicago): Blaine/Logan 1888 (Chicago): Harrison/Morton 1892 (Minneapolis): Harrison/Reid 1896 (Saint Louis): McKinley/Hobart 1900 (Philadelphia): McKinley/Roosevelt 1904 (Chicago): Roosevelt/Fairbanks 1908 (Chicago): Taft/Sherman 1912 (Chicago): Taft/Sherman/Butler 1916 (Chicago): Hughes/Fairbanks 1920 (Chicago): Harding/Coolidge 1924 (Cleveland): Coolidge/Dawes 1928 (Kansas City): Hoover/Curtis 1932 (Chicago): Hoover/Curtis 1936 (Cleveland): Landon/Knox 1940 (Philadelphia): Willkie/McNary 1944 (Chicago): Dewey/Bricker 1948 (Philadelphia): Dewey/Warren 1952 (Chicago): Eisenhower/Nixon 1956 (San Francisco): Eisenhower/Nixon 1960 (Chicago): Nixon/Lodge 1964 (San Francisco): Goldwater/Miller 1968 (Miami Beach): Nixon/Agnew 1972 (Miami Beach): Nixon/Agnew 1976 (Kansas City): Ford/Dole 1980 (Detroit): Reagan/G. H. W. Bush 1984 (Dallas): Reagan/G. H. W. Bush 1988 (New Orleans): G. H. W. Bush/Quayle 1992 (Houston): G. H. W. Bush/Quayle 1996 (San Diego): Dole/Kemp 2000 (Philadelphia): G. W. Bush/Cheney 2004 (New York): G. W. Bush/Cheney 2008 (St. Paul): McCain/Palin 2012 (Tampa): Romney/Ryan 2016 (Cleveland): Trump/Pence 2020 (Charlotte): Trump/Pence (presumptive) U.S. Senate leaders J. P. Hale (1859–1862) Anthony (1862–1884) Sherman (1884–1885) Edmunds (1885–1891) Sherman (1891–1897) Allison (1897–1908) E. Hale (1908–1911) Cullom (1911–1913) Gallinger (1913–1918) Lodge (1918–1924) Curtis (1924–1929) Watson (1929–1933) McNary (1933–1940) Austin (1940–1941) McNary (1941–1944) White (1944–1949) Wherry (1949–1952) Bridges (1952–1953) Taft (1953) Knowland (1953–1959) Dirksen (1959–1969) Scott (1969–1977) Baker (1977–1979) Stevens (1979–1980) Baker (1980–1985) Dole (1985–1996) Lott (1996–2003) Frist (2003–2007) McConnell (2007–present) U.S. House leaders Pennington (1860–1861) Grow (1861–1863) Colfax (1863–1869) Pomeroy (1869) Blaine (1869–1875) McCrary (1875–1877) Hale (1877–1879) Frye (1879–1881) Keifer (1881–1883) Cannon (1883–1889) Reed (1889–1891) T. J. Henderson (1891–1895) Reed (1895–1899) D. B. Henderson (1899–1903) Cannon (1903–1911) Mann (1911–1919) Gillett (1919–1925) Longworth (1925–1931) Snell (1931–1939) Martin (1939–1959) Halleck (1959–1965) Ford (1965–1973) Rhodes (1973–1981) Michel (1981–1995) Gingrich (1995–1999) Hastert (1999–2007) Boehner (2007–2015) Ryan (2015–2019) McCarthy (2019–present) Chairs of the RNC Morgan Raymond Ward Claflin Morgan Chandler Cameron Jewell Sabin Jones Quay Clarkson Campbell Carter Hanna Payne Cortelyou New Hitchcock Hill Rosewater Hilles Wilcox Hays Adams Butler Work Huston Fess Sanders Fletcher Hamilton Martin Walsh Spangler Brownell Reece Scott Gabrielson Summerfield Roberts Hall Alcorn T. Morton Miller Burch Bliss R. Morton Dole Bush Smith Brock Richards Laxalt/Fahrenkopf Fahrenkopf Atwater Yeutter Bond Barbour Nicholson Gilmore Racicot Gillespie Mehlman Martínez/Duncan Duncan Steele Priebus Romney McDaniel Parties by state and territory State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Territory American Samoa District of Columbia Guam Northern Mariana Islands Puerto Rico Virgin Islands Affiliated organizations Fundraising groups National Republican Congressional Committee National Republican Senatorial Committee Republican Governors Association Sectional groups College Republicans Chairmen Congressional Hispanic Conference Log Cabin Republicans Republican Jewish Coalition Republican National Hispanic Assembly Republicans Abroad Teen Age Republicans Young Republicans Republicans Overseas Factional groups Republican Main Street Partnership Republican Majority for Choice Republican Liberty Caucus Republican National Coalition for Life Republican Study Committee ConservAmerica Liberty Caucus Freedom Caucus Ripon Society The Wish List Tuesday Group Related articles History Primaries Debates 2009 chairmanship election 2011 chairmanship election 2013 chairmanship election 2015 chairmanship election 2017 chairmanship election Bibliography International Democrat Union Timeline of modern American conservatism v t e Chairmen of the National Republican Senatorial Committee Poindexter McCormick Moses Phipps Metcalf Moses Hatfield Hastings Townsend Brewster Bridges Dirksen Goldwater Dirksen Schoeppel Goldwater Morton Murphy Tower Dominick Brock Stevens Packwood Heinz Packwood Lugar Heinz Boschwitz Nickles Gramm D'Amato McConnell Frist Allen Dole Ensign Cornyn Moran Wicker Gardner Young v t e Chairmen of the United States Senate Committee on Armed Services Military Affairs Committee (1816–1947) J. Williams Troup J. Williams Jackson Harrison Benton Preston Crittenden Benton Cass Benton Davis Shields Weller Davis Johnson Wilson Logan Spencer Randolph Logan Sewell Hawley Walthall Hawley Proctor Warren du Pont Johnston Chamberlain Wadsworth Reed Sheppard Reynolds Thomas Naval Affairs Committee (1816–1947) Tait Sanford Pleasants Lloyd Hayne Dallas Southard Rives R. Williams Mangum Bayard Fairfield Yulee Gwin Mallory J. Hale Grimes Cragin Sargent McPherson Cameron McPherson Cameron E. Hale Perkins Tillman Swanson Page F. Hale Trammell Walsh Armed Services Committee (1947–present) Gurney Tydings Russell Saltonstall Russell Stennis Tower Goldwater Nunn Thurmond Warner Levin Warner Levin Warner Levin McCain Inhofe v t e Chairs of the United States Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Inouye Bayh Goldwater Durenberger Boren DeConcini Specter Shelby Graham Shelby Graham Roberts Rockefeller Feinstein Burr v t e (1956 ←) 1960 United States presidential election (→ 1964) Democratic Party Convention Primaries Nominee John F. Kennedy (campaign) VP nominee Lyndon B. Johnson Candidates Ross Barnett Pat Brown Michael DiSalle Paul C. Fisher Hubert Humphrey Lyndon B. Johnson George H. McLain Robert B. Meyner Wayne Morse Albert S. Porter Adlai Stevenson George Smathers Stuart Symington Republican Party Convention Primaries Nominee Richard Nixon VP nominee Henry Cabot Lodge Jr. Candidates Barry Goldwater Henry Cabot Lodge Jr. James M. Lloyd Nelson Rockefeller Third party and independent candidates American Vegetarian Party Nominee Symon Gould National States' Rights Party Nominee Orval Faubus VP nominee J. B. Stoner Prohibition Party Nominee Rutherford Decker VP nominee E. Harold Munn Socialist Labor Party Nominee Eric Hass VP nominee Georgia Cozzini Socialist Workers Party Nominee Farrell Dobbs VP nominee Myra Tanner Weiss Independents and other candidates Harry F. Byrd Merritt B. Curtis Lar Daly George Lincoln Rockwell Charles L. Sullivan Other 1960 elections: House Senate v t e (1960 ←) 1964 United States presidential election (→ 1968) Democratic Party Convention Primaries Nominee Lyndon B. Johnson VP nominee Hubert Humphrey Candidates Daniel Brewster Pat Brown Robert F. Kennedy Albert S. Porter Jennings Randolph John W. Reynolds Jr. George Wallace Matthew E. Welsh Sam Yorty Republican Party Convention Primaries Nominee Barry Goldwater campaign VP nominee William E. Miller Candidates Hiram Fong Walter Judd Henry Cabot Lodge Jr. Jim Rhodes Nelson Rockefeller William Scranton Margaret Chase Smith Harold Stassen Third party and independent candidates American Vegetarian Party Nominee Symon Gould National States' Rights Party Nominee John Kasper VP nominee J. B. Stoner Prohibition Party Nominee E. Harold Munn VP nominee Mark R. Shaw Socialist Labor Party Nominee Eric Hass VP nominee Henning A. Blomen Socialist Workers Party Nominee Clifton DeBerry VP nominee Ed Shaw Independents and other candidates George Lincoln Rockwell Other 1964 elections: House Senate Gubernatorial v t e Arizona's delegation(s) to the 83rd–88th & 91st–99th United States Congresses (ordered by seniority) 83rd Senate: C. Hayden | B. Goldwater House: H. Patten | J. J. Rhodes 84th Senate: C. Hayden | B. Goldwater House: J. J. Rhodes | S. Udall 85th Senate: C. Hayden | B. Goldwater House: J. J. Rhodes | S. Udall 86th Senate: C. Hayden | B. Goldwater House: J. J. Rhodes | S. Udall 87th Senate: C. Hayden | B. Goldwater House: J. J. Rhodes | M. Udall 88th Senate: C. Hayden | B. Goldwater House: J. J. Rhodes | M. Udall | G. Senner Jr. 91st Senate: B. Goldwater • P. Fannin House: J. J. Rhodes | M. Udall | S. Steiger 92nd Senate: B. Goldwater • P. Fannin House: J. J. Rhodes • M. Udall • S. Steiger 93rd Senate: B. Goldwater • P. Fannin House: J. J. Rhodes • M. Udall • S. Steiger • J. Conlan 94th Senate: B. Goldwater • P. Fannin House: J. J. Rhodes • M. Udall • S. Steiger • J. Conlan 95th Senate: B. Goldwater • D. DeConcini House: J. J. Rhodes • M. Udall • E. Rudd | B. Stump 96th Senate: B. Goldwater | D. DeConcini House: J. J. Rhodes | M. Udall | E. Rudd | B. Stump 97th Senate: B. Goldwater | D. DeConcini House: J. J. Rhodes | M. Udall | E. Rudd | B. Stump 98th Senate: B. Goldwater | D. DeConcini House: M. Udall | E. Rudd | B. Stump | J. McCain | J. McNulty 99th Senate: B. Goldwater | D. DeConcini House: M. Udall | E. Rudd | B. Stump | J. McCain | J. Kolbe Authority control BIBSYS: 90163939 BNE: XX1258225 BNF: cb120189916 (data) CANTIC: a11335385 CiNii: DA00564185 GND: 118696246 ISNI: 0000 0001 0924 2100 LCCN: n79144788 NARA: 10581730 NDL: 00522041 NKC: jn20031104013 NLA: 35132257 NLI: 002086289 NLK: KAC201904453 NSK: 000171819 NTA: 07051254X PIC: 279782 RERO: 02-A003306426 SNAC: w6nc6106 SUDOC: 030467667 Trove: 836380 US Congress: G000267 VIAF: 91568132 WorldCat Identities: lccn-n79144788 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Barry_Goldwater&oldid=950055048" Categories: Barry Goldwater 1909 births 1998 deaths 20th-century American politicians 20th-century American writers Amateur radio people American anti-communists American Episcopalians American libertarians American male non-fiction writers American memoirists American people of English-Jewish descent American people of Polish-Jewish descent American political writers American abortion-rights activists American aviators Arizona Republicans Christian libertarians Harmon Trophy winners Jewish activists Jewish United States senators LGBT rights activists from the United States Military personnel from Arizona Neurological disease deaths in the United States New Right (United States) Politicians from Phoenix, Arizona Presidential Medal of Freedom recipients Recipients of the Legion of Merit Republican Party United States senators Republican Party (United States) presidential nominees Staunton Military Academy alumni UFO conspiracy theorists United States Air Force generals United States Army Air Forces officers United States Army Air Forces pilots of World War II Candidates in the 1960 United States presidential election Candidates in the 1964 United States presidential election United States senators from Arizona University of Arizona alumni Writers from Phoenix, Arizona Jewish American presidential candidates Jewish American people in Arizona politics Hidden categories: Harv and Sfn no-target errors CS1 maint: extra text: authors list All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from May 2017 Articles with permanently dead external links Webarchive template wayback links Wikipedia pages semi-protected against vandalism Articles with short description Use American English from April 2019 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Use mdy dates from July 2018 All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from April 2019 Articles with unsourced statements from August 2018 Articles with unsourced statements from September 2017 Articles with unsourced statements from September 2019 Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from July 2013 All articles lacking reliable references Articles lacking reliable references from October 2017 Wikipedia articles with BIBSYS identifiers Wikipedia articles with BNE identifiers Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers Wikipedia articles with CANTIC identifiers Wikipedia articles with CINII identifiers Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers Wikipedia articles with NARA identifiers Wikipedia articles with NDL identifiers Wikipedia articles with NKC identifiers Wikipedia articles with NLA identifiers Wikipedia articles with NLI identifiers Wikipedia articles with NLK identifiers Wikipedia articles with NSK identifiers Wikipedia articles with NTA identifiers Wikipedia articles with PIC identifiers Wikipedia articles with RERO identifiers Wikipedia articles with SNAC-ID identifiers Wikipedia articles with SUDOC identifiers Wikipedia articles with Trove identifiers Wikipedia articles with USCongress identifiers Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers Wikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiers Articles containing video clips Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read View source View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikiquote Wikisource Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages العربية تۆرکجه Беларуская Български Čeština Dansk Deutsch Español Euskara فارسی Français 한국어 Bahasa Indonesia Italiano עברית Kiswahili Latviešu Magyar مصرى Nederlands 日本語 Norsk bokmål Polski Português Română Русский Scots Simple English Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Suomi Svenska Українська اردو ייִדיש 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 10 April 2020, at 00:27 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view