https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Winona_LaDuke
Winona LaDuke - Wikipedia
Winona LaDuke From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Author and activist Winona LaDuke Personal details Born (1959-08-18) August 18, 1959 (age 60) Los Angeles, California, U.S. Political party Green Children 3 Education Harvard University (BA) Antioch University (MA) Winona LaDuke (born August 18, 1959) is an American environmentalist, economist, and writer, known for her work on tribal land claims and preservation, as well as sustainable development. In a December 2018 interview she also described herself as an industrial hemp grower.[1] In 1996 and 2000, she ran for Vice President as the nominee of the Green Party of the United States, on a ticket headed by Ralph Nader. She is the executive director of Honor the Earth, a Native environmental advocacy organization that played an active role in the Dakota Access Pipeline protests.[2] In 2016, she received an electoral vote for vice president. In doing so, she became the first person of the Green Party to ever receive an electoral vote. Contents 1 Early life and education 2 Career and activism 2.1 Political career 3 White Earth Land Recovery Project 4 Honor the Earth 5 Hemp activism 6 Books, films, and media 7 Legacy and honors 8 Marriage and family 9 See also 10 References 11 Further reading 12 External links Early life and education[edit] Winona Laduke in earlier years Winona (meaning "first daughter" in Dakota language) LaDuke was born in 1959 in Los Angeles, California, to Betty Bernstein and Vincent LaDuke (later known as Sun Bear[3]). Her father was from the Ojibwe White Earth Reservation in Minnesota, and her mother of Jewish European ancestry from The Bronx, New York. Though LaDuke spent some of her childhood in Los Angeles, she was primarily raised in Ashland, Oregon.[4] Due to her father's heritage, she was enrolled with the Ojibwe Nation at an early age, but she did not live at White Earth, or on any other reservation, until 1982. She started work at White Earth after she graduated from college, when she got a job there as principal of the high school.[3] After her parents married, Vincent LaDuke worked as an actor in Hollywood, with supporting roles in Western movies, while Betty LaDuke completed her academic studies. The couple separated when Winona was five, and her mother took a position as an art instructor at Southern Oregon College, now Southern Oregon University at Ashland, which was then a small logging and college town near the California border.[3] In the 1980s, LaDuke's father Vincent reinvented himself as a New Age spiritual leader and went by the name Sun Bear.[3] While growing up in Ashland, LaDuke attended public school and was on the debate team in high school. She attended Harvard University, where she became part of a larger group of Indian activists, and graduated in 1982 with a Bachelor of Arts in Economics (rural economic development).[3] When LaDuke moved to White Earth she did not know the Ojibwe language, or many people, and was not quickly accepted. While working as the principal of the local Minnesota reservation high school she completed research for her master's thesis on the reservation's subsistence economy and became involved in local issues. She completed an M.A. in Community Economic Development through the distance-learning program of Antioch University.[3] Career and activism[edit] LaDuke in 2009 While working as a principal at the high school, LaDuke became an activist. In 1985 she helped found the Indigenous Women's Network. She worked with Women of All Red Nations to publicize American forced sterilization of Native American women. Next she became involved in the struggle to recover lands for the Anishinaabe. An 1867 treaty with the United States had originally provided a territory of more than 860,000 acres for the White Earth Indian Reservation. Under the Nelson Act of 1889, an attempt to have the Anishinaabe assimilate by adopting a European-American model of subsistence farming, communal tribal land had been allotted to individual households. The US classified any land in excess as surplus, allowing it to be sold to non-natives. In addition, many Anishinaabe sold their land individually over the years; these elements resulted in the tribe's losing control of most of its land. By the mid-20th century, the tribe held only one-tenth of the land within its reservation.[3] In 1989, LaDuke founded the White Earth Land Recovery Project (WELRP) in Minnesota with the proceeds of a human rights award from Reebok. The goal is to buy back land within the reservation that had been bought by non-Natives and to create enterprises that provide work to Anishinaabe. By 2000, the foundation had bought 1200 acres, which it held in a conservation trust for eventual cession to the tribe.[3] The non-profit is also working to reforest the lands and a revive cultivation of wild rice, long a traditional food. It markets that and other traditional products, including hominy, jam, buffalo sausage, and other products. It has started an Ojibwe language program, a herd of buffalo, and a wind-energy project.[3] LaDuke is also Executive Director of Honor the Earth, an organization she co-founded with the non-Native folk-rock duo, the Indigo Girls in 1993. The organization's mission is: to create awareness and support for Native environmental issues and to develop needed financial and political resources for the survival of sustainable Native communities. Honor the Earth develops these resources by using music, the arts, the media, and Indigenous wisdom to ask people to recognize our joint dependency on the Earth and be a voice for those not heard.[5] LaDuke was selected by The Evergreen State College Class of 2014 to be a keynote speaker and delivered her address at the school's graduation on June 13, 2014.[6] In 2016, LaDuke was involved in the Dakota Access Pipeline protests, participating at the resistance camps in North Dakota as well as speaking to the media on the issue.[7] In July 2019, LaDuke gave the Keynote address giving updates on efforts in stopping the "Sandpiper" pipeline, other pipelines, and other mega projects near their waters and through their Leech Lake Reservation regarding the Pipeline and urging everyone to be water protectors, stand up for rights to life, to survive, at the National Audubon Convention, Milwaukee, WS Opening Address. Winona LaDuke.[8] Political career[edit] In 1996 and 2000, LaDuke ran as the vice-presidential candidate with Ralph Nader on the Green Party ticket. She was not endorsed by any tribal council or other tribal government. LaDuke endorsed the Democratic Party ticket for the president and vice-president in 2004,[9] 2008,[10] and 2012.[11] In 2016, Robert Satiacum, Jr., a faithless elector from Washington cast his presidential vote for Native American activist, Faith Spotted Eagle; he then cast his vote for Vice President for Winona LaDuke, making her the first Native American woman to receive an Electoral College vote for Vice President.[12] White Earth Land Recovery Project[edit] Main article: White Earth Land Recovery Project WELRP has worked to revive cultivation and harvesting of wild rice, a traditional food of the Ojibwe people. It produces and sells traditional foods and crafts through its label, Native Harvest.[13] Honor the Earth[edit] Main article: Honor the Earth Honor the Earth is a national advocacy group encouraging public support and funding for Native environmental groups. With Honor the Earth, LaDuke works nationally and internationally on issues of climate change, renewable energy, sustainable development, food systems and environmental justice. Members of Honor the Earth were active in the Dakota Access Pipeline protests.[2] Hemp activism[edit] LaDuke has begun a 40-acre (16 ha) industrial hemp farm in Minnesota on the White Earth Indian Reservation, dedicated to growing hemp from different regions of the world,[14] in addition to vegetables and tobacco.[15] LaDuke has advocated for the growth of both marijuana and industrial hemp on tribal lands as moneymaking opportunities for tribal communities; this position is controversial, however, as when the Oglala Sioux Tribe attempted this they were raided by the DEA.[16] Books, films, and media[edit] This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Winona LaDuke" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (March 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Books: Last Standing Woman (1997), novel. All our Relations: Native Struggles for Land and Life (1999), about the drive to reclaim tribal land for ownership Recovering the Sacred: the Power of Naming and Claiming (2005), a book about traditional beliefs and practices. The Militarization of Indian Country (2013) The Sugar Bush (1999) The Winona LaDuke Reader: A Collection of Essential Writings (2002) All Our Relations: Native Struggles for Land and Life (2016) As co-author: Conquest: Sexual Violence and American Indian Genocide Grassroots: A Field Guide for Feminist Activism Sister Nations: Native American Women Writers on Community Struggle for the Land: Native North American Resistance to Genocide, Ecocide, and Colonization Cutting Corporate Welfare Ojibwe Waasa Inaabidaa: We Look in All Directions New Perspectives on Environmental Justice: Gender, Sexuality, and Activism Make a Beautiful Way: The Wisdom of Native American Women How to Say I Love You in Indian Earth Meets Spirit: A Photographic Journey Through the Sacred Landscape Otter Tail Review: Stories, Essays and Poems from Minnesota's Heartland Daughters of Mother Earth: The Wisdom of Native American Women Her editorials and essays have been published in national and international media. Television and film appearances: Appearance in the documentary film Anthem, directed by Shainee Gabel and Kristin Hahn.[17] Appearance in the 1990 Canadian documentary film Uranium, directed by Magnus Isacsson.[18] Appearance in the TV documentary The Main Stream.[19] Appearance on The Colbert Report on June 12, 2008.[20] Featured in 2017 full-length documentary First Daughter and the Black Snake, directed by Keri Pickett. Chronicles LaDuke's opposition against the Canadian-owned Enbridge plans to route a pipeline through land granted to her tribe in an 1855 Treaty.[21] Legacy and honors[edit] 1994, LaDuke was nominated by Time magazine as one of America's fifty most promising leaders under forty years of age. 1996, she was given the Thomas Merton Award 1997, she was granted the BIHA Community Service Award 1998, she won the Reebok Human Rights Award. 1998, Ms. Magazine named her Woman of the Year for her work with Honor the Earth. Ann Bancroft Award for Women's Leadership Fellowship. 2007, she was inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame.[22] 2015, she received an honorary doctorate degree from Augsburg College.[23] 2017, she received the Alice and Clifford Spendlove Prize in Social Justice, Diplomacy and Tolerance, at the University of California, Merced.[24] Marriage and family[edit] LaDuke married Randy Kapashesit, a Cree leader, when working in opposition to a major hydroelectric project near Moose Factory, Ontario. They had two children together: a daughter Waseyabin (born 1988) and a son Ajuawak (born 1991). They divorced after several years.[3] LaDuke's current partner is Kevin Gasco. They had a child in 1999. She has also cared for a niece and nephew for an extended period. She and Gasco share her grandchildren.[3] On November 9, 2008, LaDuke's house in Ponsford, Minnesota, burned down while she was in Boston. No one was injured, but all of LaDuke's personal property burned, including her extensive library and indigenous art and artifact collection.[25] See also[edit] List of writers from peoples indigenous to the Americas References[edit] ^ Amy Goodman, Winona LaDuke (December 7, 2018). Interview with Winona LaDuke. Democracy Now!. Event occurs at 15:20. Archived from the original on December 7, 2018. Retrieved December 7, 2018. ^ a b Winona LaDuke (August 25, 2016). "What Would Sitting Bull Do?". Retrieved November 17, 2016. ^ a b c d e f g h i j k Peter Ritter, "The Party Crasher", Minneapolis News, October 11, 2000 ^ "Willamette Week | "Winona Laduke" | July 19th, 2006". Archived from the original on August 27, 2006. ^ "About Us". Honor The Earth. Retrieved April 15, 2017. ^ writer, Lisa Pemberton-Staff. "The Evergreen State College graduates nearly 1,300 students". theolympian. Retrieved April 19, 2019. ^ Amy Goodman, Winona LaDuke (September 4, 2016). Dakota Access Pipeline Company Attacks Native American Protesters with Dogs and Pepper Spray. Democracy Now!. Archived from the original on September 24, 2018. Retrieved September 4, 2016. ^ "Audubon Convention 2019: Opening Address. Winona LaDuke" – via www.youtube.com. ^ "Winona LaDuke endorsement of John Kerry for president". October 20, 2004. Archived from the original on December 24, 2013. Retrieved October 22, 2012. ^ "LaDuke and the lessons she learned with Nader". Minnesota Post. May 22, 2008. Retrieved October 22, 2012. ^ "Winona LaDuke on Presidential Politics (7:41)". Retrieved October 22, 2012. ^ "How Faith Spotted Eagle became the first Native American to win an electoral vote for president". LA Times. Retrieved December 21, 2016. ^ "Ricing Time: Harvesting on the Lakes of White Earth", National Public Radio. 12 November 2004. ^ "In These Times- The Renaissance of Tribal Hemp". ^ "Winona LaDuke announces her Hemp and Heritage Farm is coming alive - IndianCountryToday.com". IndianCountryToday.com. Retrieved October 19, 2018. ^ "Winona LaDuke: Consider Marijuana and Hemp for Indian Country". Indianz. March 5, 2015. ^ Carrie Chapman Catt Center for Women and Politics (2017). "Winona LaDuke". Iowa State University Archives of Women's Political Communication. Archived from the original on February 1, 2017. Retrieved January 20, 2017. ^ Canada, National Film Board of, Uranium, retrieved January 5, 2020 ^ globalreach.com, Global Reach Internet Productions, LLC - Ames, IA -. "Winona LaDuke - Women's Political Communication Archives". www.womenspeecharchive.org. Archived from the original on February 1, 2017. Retrieved January 20, 2017. ^ LaDuke on The Colbert Report, colbertnation.com. ^ "Urgent Cinema: Winona LaDuke and the Enbridge Pipeline". Walker Art Center. Retrieved February 22, 2017. ^ LaDuke, Winona[dead link] - National Women's Hall of Fame ^ "Day Undergraduate Ceremony - Commencement". Archived from the original on June 30, 2016. Retrieved January 5, 2018. ^ "Indigenous Activist Winona LaDuke Wins Spendlove Prize - UC Merced". www.ucmerced.edu. Retrieved January 5, 2018. ^ "Winona LaDuke to rebuild home destroyed by fire". News from Indian Country. November 17, 2008. Retrieved November 17, 2008. Further reading[edit] Andrews, Max (Ed.), Land, Art: A Cultural Ecology Handbook. London, Royal Society of Arts, 2006, ISBN 978-0-901469-57-1. Interview with Winona LaDuke External links[edit] Wikiquote has quotations related to: Winona LaDuke Winona LaDuke - Discover the Networks Honor the Earth, Official Website Appearances on C-SPAN Winona LaDuke at nativeharvest.com Winona LaDuke, Voices from the Gap, University of Minnesota Cedar-Face, Mary Jane. "Winona LaDuke (1959-)". The Oregon Encyclopedia. VP Acceptance Speech, 1996 Green Party Convention "Nader's No. 2" at Salon.com (July 13, 2000) Winona LaDuke interview with Majora Carter of The Promised Land radio show (2000) Winona LaDuke on IMDb Party political offices First Green nominee for Vice President of the United States 1996, 2000 Succeeded by Pat LaMarche v t e Green Party of the United States Presidential tickets 1996: Nader/LaDuke 2000: Nader/LaDuke 2004: Cobb/LaMarche 2008: McKinney/Clemente 2012: Stein/Honkala 2016: Stein/Baraka Presidential primaries 2008 2012 2016 2020 Convention 2000 (Denver) 2004 (Milwaukee) 2008 (Chicago) 2012 (Baltimore) 2016 (Houston) 2020 (Detroit) Parties by state and territory Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Related organizations Global Greens Green Parties of the Americas Green National Committee Green Senatorial Campaign Committee Greens/Green Party USA History Association of State Green Parties Overview Related articles Green politics Office-holding politicians v t e International Indigenous and minority rights Rights Ancestral domain Free, prior and informed consent Intellectual property Land rights Language Self-determination in Australia in Canada in the United States Traditional knowledge ecological medical Treaty rights Governmental organizations African Commission on Human and Peoples' Rights Arctic Council Bureau of Indian Affairs Council of Indigenous Peoples Taiwan) Fundação Nacional do Índio Indigenous and Northern Affairs Canada National Institute of Indigenous Peoples (Mexico) National Commission on Indigenous Peoples (Philippines) Te Puni Kōkiri (New Zealand) United Nations Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues Non-governmental and political organizations Amazon Watch Assembly of First Nations Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador Congress of Aboriginal Peoples Coordinator of Indigenous Organizations of the Amazon River Basin Cultural Survival Indigenous Environmental Network Indigenous Peoples Council on Biocolonialism International Work Group for Indigenous Affairs National Indigenous Organization of Colombia Native American Rights Fund Survival International Unrepresented Nations and Peoples Organization Zapatista Army of National Liberation (more ...) Issues Civilizing mission Colonialism Internal colonialism Settler colonialism Cultural appropriation Sports mascots Redface Dakota Access Pipeline protests Discovery doctrine Homeland Lands inhabited by indigenous peoples Bantustan Autonomous okrugs American Indian reservation Indian colony Indian reserve Ranchería Rancherie Urban Indian reserve Manifest destiny Plastic shaman Rainbow Warriors Two-Spirit Legal representation Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention, 1989 Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, 2007 Historical cases 2009 Peruvian political crisis Alta controversy Chiapas conflict Depopulation of Diego Garcia High Arctic relocation Indian removal Mapuche conflict Oka Crisis Residential schools Canada New Zealand South Africa United States Rubber boom San controversy Stolen Generations Indigenous rights • Minority rights v t e (1992 ←) 1996 United States presidential election (→ 2000) Democratic Party Convention Primaries Nominee Bill Clinton positions VP nominee Al Gore Candidates James D. Griffin Lyndon LaRouche campaign positions Pat Paulsen Republican Party Convention Primaries Nominee Bob Dole VP nominee Jack Kemp Candidates Lamar Alexander Pat Buchanan Charles E. Collins Bob Dornan Jack Fellure Arthur Fletcher Steve Forbes Phil Gramm Alan Keyes Richard Lugar Isabell Masters Jimmy McMillan Tennie Rogers Arlen Specter Morry Taylor Pete Wilson Reform Party Primaries Nominee Ross Perot VP nominee Pat Choate Candidates Richard Lamm Other Third party and independent candidates Green Party Convention Nominee Ralph Nader (campaign) VP nominee Winona LaDuke Independent Grassroots Party Nominee John Birrenbach VP nominee George McMahon Libertarian Party Convention Nominee Harry Browne VP nominee Jo Jorgensen Candidates Irwin Schiff Natural Law Party Nominee John Hagelin VP nominee Mike Tompkins Prohibition Party Nominee Earl Dodge VP nominee Rachel Bubar Kelly Socialist Party Nominee Mary Cal Hollis VP nominee Eric Chester Socialist Workers Party Nominee James Harris U.S. Taxpayers Party Nominee Howard Phillips VP nominee Herb Titus Workers World Party Nominee Monica Moorehead VP nominee Gloria La Riva Independents and other candidates Joan Jett Blakk Marsha Feinland Isabell Masters Steve Michael Dennis Peron Other 1996 elections House Senate Gubernatorial v t e (1996 ←) 2000 United States presidential election (→ 2004) General election results Florida results Republican Party Convention Primaries Nominee George W. Bush campaign positions VP nominee Dick Cheney Candidates Lamar Alexander Gary Bauer Pat Buchanan campaign Herman Cain positions Elizabeth Dole Jack Fellure Steve Forbes Orrin Hatch John Kasich campaign positions Alan Keyes campaign Andy Martin John McCain campaign positions Dan Quayle Bob Smith Democratic Party Convention Primaries Nominee Al Gore campaign VP nominee Joe Lieberman positions Candidates Bill Bradley campaign Lyndon LaRouche campaign positions Constitution Party Convention Nominee Howard Phillips VP nominee Curtis Frazier Candidates Herb Titus Green Party Convention Nominee Ralph Nader campaign VP nominee Winona LaDuke Candidates Jello Biafra Stephen Gaskin Joel Kovel Libertarian Party Convention Nominee Harry Browne campaign VP nominee Art Olivier Candidates Barry Hess L. Neil Smith Reform Party Primaries Nominee Pat Buchanan campaign VP nominee Ezola B. Foster Candidates John Hagelin Donald Trump campaign positions Natural Law Party Nominee John Hagelin VP nominee Nat Goldhaber Prohibition Party Nominee Earl Dodge VP nominee W. Dean Watkins Socialist Party Nominee David McReynolds VP nominee Mary Cal Hollis Socialist Workers Party Nominee James Harris VP nominee Margaret Trowe Workers World Party Nominee Monica Moorehead VP nominee Gloria La Riva Independent Cathy Gordon Brown Charles E. Collins Isabell Masters Joe Schriner Florida election recount and legal proceedings Key figures Katherine Harris Jeb Bush David Boies Theodore Olson James Baker Ron Klain Warren Christopher Michael Whouley Benjamin Ginsberg Bob Butterworth Joe Allbaugh Mac Stipanovich Craig Waters Theresa LePore Carol Roberts Election day Florida Central Voter File (scrub list) Volusia error Chad Butterfly ballot Aftermath and legal proceedings Florida election recount Brooks Brothers riot Palm Beach County Canvassing Board v. Harris (Harris I) Gore v. Harris (Harris II) Bush v. Palm Beach County Canvassing Board Bush v. Gore Films Recount (2008) Bush Family Fortunes (2004) Unprecedented: The 2000 Presidential Election (2002) Other 2000 elections House Senate Gubernatorial v t e Inductees to the National Women's Hall of Fame 1970–1979 1973 Jane Addams Marian Anderson Susan B. Anthony Clara Barton Mary McLeod Bethune Elizabeth Blackwell Pearl S. Buck Rachel Carson Mary Cassatt Emily Dickinson Amelia Earhart Alice Hamilton Helen Hayes Helen Keller Eleanor Roosevelt Florence Sabin Margaret Chase Smith Elizabeth Cady Stanton Helen Brooke Taussig Harriet Tubman 1976 Abigail Adams Margaret Mead Mildred "Babe" Didrikson Zaharias 1979 Dorothea Dix Juliette Gordon Low Alice Paul Elizabeth Bayley Seton 1980–1989 1981 Margaret Sanger Sojourner Truth 1982 Carrie Chapman Catt Frances Perkins 1983 Belva Lockwood Lucretia Mott 1984 Mary "Mother" Harris Jones Bessie Smith 1986 Barbara McClintock Lucy Stone Harriet Beecher Stowe 1988 Gwendolyn Brooks Willa Cather Sally Ride Ida B. Wells-Barnett 1990–1999 1990 Margaret Bourke-White Barbara Jordan Billie Jean King Florence B. Seibert 1991 Gertrude Belle Elion 1993 Ethel Percy Andrus Antoinette Blackwell Emily Blackwell Shirley Chisholm Jacqueline Cochran Ruth Colvin Marian Wright Edelman Alice Evans Betty Friedan Ella Grasso Martha Wright Griffiths Fannie Lou Hamer Dorothy Height Dolores Huerta Mary Jacobi Mae Jemison Mary Lyon Mary Mahoney Wilma Mankiller Constance Baker Motley Georgia O'Keeffe Annie Oakley Rosa Parks Esther Peterson Jeannette Rankin Ellen Swallow Richards Elaine Roulet Katherine Siva Saubel Gloria Steinem Helen Stephens Lillian Wald Madam C. J. Walker Faye Wattleton Rosalyn S. Yalow Gloria Yerkovich 1994 Bella Abzug Ella Baker Myra Bradwell Annie Jump Cannon Jane Cunningham Croly Catherine East Geraldine Ferraro Charlotte Perkins Gilman Grace Hopper Helen LaKelly Hunt Zora Neale Hurston Anne Hutchinson Frances Wisebart Jacobs Susette La Flesche Louise McManus Maria Mitchell Antonia Novello Linda Richards Wilma Rudolph Betty Bone Schiess Muriel Siebert Nettie Stevens Oprah Winfrey Sarah Winnemucca Fanny Wright 1995 Virginia Apgar Ann Bancroft Amelia Bloomer Mary Breckinridge Eileen Collins Elizabeth Hanford Dole Anne Dallas Dudley Mary Baker Eddy Ella Fitzgerald Margaret Fuller Matilda Joslyn Gage Lillian Moller Gilbreth Nannerl O. Keohane Maggie Kuhn Sandra Day O'Connor Josephine St. Pierre Ruffin Pat Schroeder Hannah Greenebaum Solomon 1996 Louisa May Alcott Charlotte Anne Bunch Frances Xavier Cabrini Mary A. Hallaren Oveta Culp Hobby Wilhelmina Cole Holladay Anne Morrow Lindbergh Maria Goeppert Mayer Ernestine Louise Potowski Rose Maria Tallchief Edith Wharton 1998 Madeleine Albright Maya Angelou Nellie Bly Lydia Moss Bradley Mary Steichen Calderone Mary Ann Shadd Cary Joan Ganz Cooney Gerty Cori Sarah Grimké Julia Ward Howe Shirley Ann Jackson Shannon Lucid Katharine Dexter McCormick Rozanne L. Ridgway Edith Nourse Rogers Felice Schwartz Eunice Kennedy Shriver Beverly Sills Florence Wald Angelina Grimké Weld Chien-Shiung Wu 2000–2009 2000 Faye Glenn Abdellah Emma Smith DeVoe Marjory Stoneman Douglas Mary Dyer Sylvia A. Earle Crystal Eastman Jeanne Holm Leontine T. Kelly Frances Oldham Kelsey Kate Mullany Janet Reno Anna Howard Shaw Sophia Smith Ida Tarbell Wilma L. Vaught Mary Edwards Walker Annie Dodge Wauneka Eudora Welty Frances E. Willard 2001 Dorothy H. Andersen Lucille Ball Rosalynn Carter Lydia Maria Child Bessie Coleman Dorothy Day Marian de Forest Althea Gibson Beatrice A. Hicks Barbara Holdridge Harriet Williams Russell Strong Emily Howell Warner Victoria Woodhull 2002 Paulina Kellogg Wright Davis Ruth Bader Ginsburg Katharine Graham Bertha Holt Mary Engle Pennington Mercy Otis Warren 2003 Linda G. Alvarado Donna de Varona Gertrude Ederle Martha Matilda Harper Patricia Roberts Harris Stephanie L. Kwolek Dorothea Lange Mildred Robbins Leet Patsy Takemoto Mink Sacagawea Anne Sullivan Sheila E. Widnall 2005 Florence Ellinwood Allen Ruth Fulton Benedict Betty Bumpers Hillary Clinton Rita Rossi Colwell Mother Marianne Cope Maya Y. Lin Patricia A. Locke Blanche Stuart Scott Mary Burnett Talbert 2007 Eleanor K. Baum Julia Child Martha Coffin Pelham Wright Swanee Hunt Winona LaDuke Elisabeth Kübler-Ross Judith L. Pipher Catherine Filene Shouse Henrietta Szold 2009 Louise Bourgeois Mildred Cohn Karen DeCrow Susan Kelly-Dreiss Allie B. Latimer Emma Lazarus Ruth Patrick Rebecca Talbot Perkins Susan Solomon Kate Stoneman 2010–2019 2011 St. Katharine Drexel Dorothy Harrison Eustis Loretta C. Ford Abby Kelley Foster Helen Murray Free Billie Holiday Coretta Scott King Lilly Ledbetter Barbara A. Mikulski Donna E. Shalala Kathrine Switzer 2013 Betty Ford Ina May Gaskin Julie Krone Kate Millett Nancy Pelosi Mary Joseph Rogers Bernice Sandler Anna Schwartz Emma Willard 2015 Tenley Albright Nancy Brinker Martha Graham Marcia Greenberger Barbara Iglewski Jean Kilbourne Carlotta Walls LaNier Philippa Marrack Mary Harriman Rumsey Eleanor Smeal 2017 Matilda Cuomo Temple Grandin Lorraine Hansberry Victoria Jackson Sherry Lansing Clare Boothe Luce Aimee Mullins Carol Mutter Janet Rowley Alice Waters 2019 Gloria Allred Angela Davis Sarah Deer Jane Fonda Nicole Malachowski Rose O'Neill Louise Slaughter Sonia Sotomayor Laurie Spiegel Flossie Wong-Staal Authority control BNF: cb14405525b (data) GND: 122632664 ISNI: 0000 0000 7367 2917 LCCN: no90005755 NTA: 151096201 SNAC: w63n3jkp SUDOC: 048918857 VIAF: 92855740 WorldCat Identities: lccn-no90005755 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Winona_LaDuke&oldid=953291455" Categories: 1959 births 20th-century American novelists 20th-century American politicians 20th-century American women writers Economists from California American environmentalists American feminists American non-fiction environmental writers American people of Russian-Jewish descent American women activists American women novelists Antioch College alumni Ecofeminists Female United States vice presidential candidates Green Party of the United States vice presidential nominees Harvard University alumni Indigenous American philosophy Jewish American vice presidential candidates Jewish American writers Living people Minnesota Greens Native American activists Native American environmentalists American women environmentalists Native American novelists Native American vice presidential candidates Native American women in politics Native American women writers Native Americans' rights activists Ojibwe people Reproductive rights activists 1996 United States vice-presidential candidates 2000 United States vice-presidential candidates American women economists Writers from Ashland, Oregon Writers from Los Angeles Novelists from Minnesota Activists from California 20th-century American women politicians Novelists from Oregon American women non-fiction writers Economists from Oregon 20th-century American economists 21st-century American economists Novelists from California White Earth Band of Ojibwe Hidden categories: All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from July 2016 Articles with short description Use mdy dates from December 2013 Articles needing additional references from March 2019 All articles needing additional references Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers Wikipedia articles with NTA identifiers Wikipedia articles with SNAC-ID identifiers Wikipedia articles with SUDOC identifiers Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers Wikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikiquote Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages تۆرکجه Català Čeština Cymraeg Deutsch Español Français 한국어 Italiano עברית 日本語 Polski Simple English Svenska Edit links This page was last edited on 26 April 2020, at 17:34 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view