https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hugh_L._White
Hugh L. White - Wikipedia
Hugh L. White From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search For the U.S. Senator from Tennessee, see Hugh Lawson White. For other people named Hugh White, see Hugh White (disambiguation). This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Hugh L. White" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (December 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Hugh White 45th and 51st Governor of Mississippi In office January 22, 1952 – January 17, 1956 Lieutenant Carroll Gartin Preceded by Fielding L. Wright Succeeded by James P. Coleman In office January 21, 1936 – January 16, 1940 Lieutenant Jacob Buehler Snider Preceded by Martin Sennet Conner Succeeded by Paul B. Johnson Sr. Personal details Born Hugh Lawson White (1881-08-19)August 19, 1881 near McComb, Mississippi, U.S. Died September 20, 1965(1965-09-20) (aged 84) McComb, Mississippi, U.S. Political party Democratic Spouse(s) Judith Wier Sugg Education Soule's Business College University of Mississippi, Oxford Hugh Lawson White (August 19, 1881 – September 20, 1965) was an American politician from Mississippi and a member of the Democratic Party. He served two non-consecutive terms as Governor of Mississippi (1936–1940, 1952–1956). Contents 1 Biography 2 Tributes 3 References 4 External links Biography[edit] White was born near McComb and attended the University of Mississippi where he was a member of St. Anthony Hall. White was a wealthy industrialist and had been mayor of Columbia when he was first elected to the governorship, serving from 1926 until 1936. In 1936 he established the Balance Agriculture With Industry (BAWI) program that sought to develop an industrial base that matched the state's agricultural base. Under BAWI, advertising and incentives were deployed in hopes of enticing industries to locate to the state. Local governments could issue bonds to construct factories that could be leased to companies (who were also offered tax breaks). After leaving office due to term limits, White was a delegate representing Mississippi at the 1948 Democratic National Convention. When Mayor of Minneapolis Hubert Humphrey urged the Democratic Party to "get out of the shadow of states' rights and walk forthrightly into the bright sunshine of human rights", White and the other delegates from Mississippi and Alabama walked out of the convention. White and these delegates formed the Dixiecrat Party, nominating Strom Thurmond for President. Inauguration at Mississippi State Capitol, January 22, 1952 In 1951, White won a second term, during which the issue of school segregation was a main issue. During the 1940s and early 1950s, federal courts made a series of decisions that indicated that the notion of "separate but equal" schools would soon be declared unconstitutional. Governor White and the state legislature prepared for that possibility by creating plans that sought to improve black schools. Among the proposals were increasing black teacher salaries to match white teachers' and building black schools on par with white schools. White called one hundred of the state's black leaders to a meeting at the capital to ask for their support of the plan. Much to his surprise, they overwhelmingly rejected his "voluntary" segregation plan and instead stated that they wanted only an integrated school system. In 1954, the U.S. Supreme Court made the famous Brown v. Board of Education decision that declared the practice of "separate but equal" to be unconstitutional. On August 28, 1955, towards the end of White's term as governor, the infamous murder of Emmett Till took place. Three months earlier, an African American minister, George W. Lee, had been shot and killed. Tributes[edit] Hugh White State Park, a Mississippi state park, is named for him. The Keys Hill Historic District, Broad Street, Columbia, was added to the National Register of Historic Places, including White's former home, the Hugh Lawson White Mansion, for its association with him.[1] References[edit] ^ "Mississippi - Marion County". National Register of Historic Places. Retrieved January 30, 2018. External links[edit] Mississippi portal Biography portal Hugh L. White at Find a Grave Mississippi Governor Hugh Lawson White from the National Governors Association website at the Wayback Machine (archived June 29, 2011) Political offices Preceded by Martin Sennett Conner Governor of Mississippi 1936–1940 Succeeded by Paul B. Johnson Sr. Preceded by Fielding L. Wright Governor of Mississippi 1952–1956 Succeeded by James P. Coleman v t e Governors of Mississippi Territory (1798–1817) Sargent Claiborne R. Williams Holmes State (since 1817) Holmes Poindexter Leake Brandon Holmes Brandon Scott Lynch Runnels Quitman Lynch McNutt Tucker Brown Matthews Quitman Guion J. Whitfield Foote Pettus McRae McWillie Pettus Clark Sharkey Humphreys Ames Alcorn Powers Ames Stone Lowry Stone McLaurin Longino Vardaman Noel Brewer Bilbo Russell H. Whitfield Murphree Bilbo Conner White Johnson Sr. Murphree Bailey Wright White Coleman Barnett Johnson Jr. J. Williams Waller Finch Winter Allain Mabus Fordice Musgrove Barbour Bryant Reeves Authority control LCCN: no2007089880 SNAC: w6rn56pj VIAF: 44082559 WorldCat Identities: lccn-no2007089880 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Hugh_L._White&oldid=951567187" Categories: 1881 births 1965 deaths 20th-century American politicians American Presbyterians Democratic Party state governors of the United States Governors of Mississippi Mississippi Democrats People from Columbia, Mississippi People from Pike County, Mississippi University of Mississippi alumni Mississippi Dixiecrats Hidden categories: Use mdy dates from March 2017 Articles needing additional references from December 2019 All articles needing additional references Webarchive template wayback links Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers Wikipedia articles with SNAC-ID identifiers Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers Wikipedia articles with WorldCat identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages العربية تۆرکجه Deutsch Svenska Edit links This page was last edited on 17 April 2020, at 19:56 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view