https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/28/us/politics/hillary-clinton-biden-endorsement.html
Watch Live: Hillary Clinton Endorses Joe Biden for President - The New York Times
Sections SEARCH Skip to contentSkip to site index Politics Today’s Paper Politics|Hillary Clinton Endorses Joe Biden: ‘I Wish He Were President Right Now’ https://nyti.ms/2VKgznF Latest Results National Map Delegate Count Election Calendar Who’s Running AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Hillary Clinton Endorses Joe Biden: ‘I Wish He Were President Right Now’ The announcement by the 2016 Democratic presidential nominee follows ones from Barack Obama, Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren as the party tries to show its unity. Video transcript Back bars 0:00/0:48 -0:48 transcript ‘I Can’t Wait’: Clinton Endorses Biden for President Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, the 2016 Democratic nominee, officially announced her support for former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s bid for president. So I’ve been not only a colleague of Joe Biden’s, I’ve been a friend, and I can tell you that I wish he were president right now. But I can’t wait until he is if all of us do our part to support the kind of person that we want back in the White House to end the kind of disregard of not only American values, but American institutions, the rule of law. And so much else that is at stake because of the current occupant. So I’m thrilled to be here with Joe from my home and his home during the very crazy, scary times that we find ourselves in. Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, the 2016 Democratic nominee, officially announced her support for former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s bid for president.CreditCredit...Thais Llorca/EPA, via Shutterstock By Lisa Lerer, Maggie Astor and Sydney Ember April 28, 2020 Hillary Clinton, the 2016 Democratic presidential nominee and a political veteran who knows firsthand what it is like to compete against President Trump, threw her support behind Joseph R. Biden Jr. on Tuesday, the latest party leader to make the case for returning the White House to Democratic hands in November. “I’ve been not only a colleague of Joe Biden’s, I’ve been a friend, and I can tell you that I wish he were president right now but I can’t wait until he is — if all of us do our part to support the kind of person that we want back in the White House,” Mrs. Clinton said on Tuesday afternoon during a virtual town hall-style event with Mr. Biden about the impact of the coronavirus on women. Accepting her support, Mr. Biden said: “I really appreciate your friendship. What a, just a wonderful personal endorsement.” The Biden campaign had advertised that the event would feature a “special guest,” and on her Twitter account Tuesday, Mrs. Clinton all but confirmed the endorsement as she disclosed that she would be appearing with Mr. Biden. After Mrs. Clinton endorsed Mr. Biden, the event turned into a conversation about the coronavirus crisis. With an easy banter that recalled the breakfast meetings they both repeatedly harked back to, the two shared ideas to support women who were struggling because of the outbreak. “You’ve been way ahead on these issues for a long time,” Mr. Biden said to Mrs. Clinton — a show of respect that was often returned. Mrs. Clinton also sought to validate Mr. Biden as a lifelong champion of women and victims of abuse at a time when he is facing an allegation of sexual assault. Neither directly mentioned that accusation, made by Tara Reade, a former Senate aide. But in response to a question about how to help victims of domestic violence who were now stuck at home with their abusers, Mrs. Clinton recalled the former vice president’s work on the Violence Against Women Act that “you wrote and you led.” As the woman who got closest to the White House, Mrs. Clinton remains a singular figure in Democratic presidential politics, and a complicated one. Both beloved and blamed for her narrow loss to Mr. Trump in 2016, she retains a loyal and powerful constituency of supporters, many of whom have argued that Russian interference cost her the election. Her re-emergence in presidential politics also serves as an implicit reminder to the Democratic left about the dangers of a divided party. While a wide array of factors contributed to Mrs. Clinton’s loss, one element was the refusal of some on the left to coalesce behind her candidacy against Mr. Trump. For progressives now skeptical about Mr. Biden, Mrs. Clinton’s endorsement, among other things, is an invitation to reflect upon whether they want to risk four more years of the Trump presidency because they are uncomfortable with the former vice president. Mr. Biden has argued since last year that he is best positioned to defeat Mr. Trump — but that he would need a united party to do it. No one knows better than Mrs. Clinton that there is no room for error or a lack of unity among Democrats in a closely fought general election. Mrs. Clinton’s relationship with Mr. Biden hasn’t always been easy: The two developed a respectful relationship over their decades in Washington, though one marked by slights and awkward rivalries. Mr. Biden was resentful of the attention Mrs. Clinton received when they ran against each other in the 2008 primary race, but he was the one eventually chosen as former President Barack Obama’s running mate. They became more friendly through weekly meetings while they both served in the Obama administration. But tensions deepened after Mr. Biden considered running against Mrs. Clinton for the 2016 nomination. After her loss, he was fairly open with his critique that she had failed to talk to middle-class voters. For her part, Mrs. Clinton seriously weighed whether to run against Mr. Biden last year. Now they will be partners again, this time on the campaign trail, as Mr. Biden tries to do what Mrs. Clinton could not. Given her three debates against Mr. Trump in 2016, and her daily strategy and fortifications dealing with his punches and counterpunches in the heat of a campaign, her counsel to Mr. Biden has the value of firsthand experience. During the virtual event on Tuesday, Mr. Biden suggested he would continue to seek her guidance. “Hillary, I’m going to keep calling and asking for your advice,” he said. Her endorsement follows similar ones from Senators Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, Mr. Obama, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, former Vice President Al Gore and Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington. The fast and carefully orchestrated rollout of endorsements for Mr. Biden is a sign of the value that his campaign is putting on Democratic unity against Mr. Trump. Mrs. Clinton’s support is not, perhaps, as strategically important as that of Mr. Sanders and Ms. Warren, who had been 2020 candidates and whose supporters — progressive and, especially in Mr. Sanders’s case, largely young — Mr. Biden is trying to win over. Some progressive Democrats are skeptical about Mr. Biden, and the Sanders and Warren endorsements were major overtures to those voters. As Democrats have searched for a way forward in the Trump era, some have become more open with their criticism of Mrs. Clinton and her husband, former President Bill Clinton. The party’s left wing has repudiated some of Mr. Clinton’s main achievements, including the 1994 crime bill and the 1999 repeal of the Glass-Steagall Act, which allowed the rise of big banks, and is eager to distance itself from the scandals that defined Mr. Clinton’s second term. Some have said they’ve regretted how the party treated Monica S. Lewinsky and the controversy that followed. But on Tuesday, Mr. Biden happily accepted Mrs. Clinton’s endorsement — and seemed to joyfully accept a bit of ribbing, too. During one exchange, Mrs. Clinton referred to Mr. Biden’s “technological encounters” with voters, then joked that they “must be killing you, Joe Biden!” “One of the best retail politicians there is,” she went on, “and you’re sitting in your house doing this.” As they wrapped up the event, Mr. Biden had his own words of praise. “I have to tell you something completely honestly — straightforward,” he said. “I wish this were us doing this and my supporting your re-election for president of the United States.” Her half-smile suggested she wished that, too. Our 2020 Election Guide Updated April 28, 2020 The Latest Hillary Clinton, during a virtual town hall-style event about the impact of the coronavirus on women, announced her support for Joseph R. Biden Jr. Coronavirus Election Calendar As the pandemic upends the 2020 campaign, several states have postponed or canceled their primary elections. We’re keeping track here. Keep Up With Our Coverage Get an email recapping the day’s news Download our mobile app on iOS and Android and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts Listen to our podcast, The Field, on Apple Podcasts and Spotify AdvertisementContinue reading the main story Site Index Site Information Navigation © 2020 The New York Times Company NYTCo Contact Us Work with us Advertise T Brand Studio Your Ad Choices Privacy Terms of Service Terms of Sale Site Map Help Subscriptions