https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mindy_Finn
Mindy Finn - Wikipedia
Mindy Finn From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Mindy Finn Personal details Born Mindy Lisa Finn (1981-02-10) February 10, 1981 (age 39) Houston, Texas, U.S. Political party Republican (until 2016) Independent (2016–present) Spouse(s) David Feinberg (m. 2009) Children 3 Education Boston University (BA) George Washington University (MA) Mindy Lisa Finn[1] (born February 10, 1981)[2] is an American entrepreneur and digital media strategist, who was a candidate for Vice President of the United States in the 2016 election as the running mate of Independent Evan McMullin. Contents 1 Early life and education 2 Career 3 2016 vice presidential candidacy 4 Recognition 5 References 6 External links Early life and education[edit] Finn grew up in Kingwood, Texas, a suburb of Houston.[3] She holds a master's degree in political management from George Washington University and a bachelor's degree from Boston University.[4] Finn and her husband David Feinberg have two sons and one daughter.[5] Career[edit] Finn appearing with Ellen S. Miller, Sascha Meinrath, and Craig Newmark at a New America event in 2009 Finn's work focuses on technology's impact on politics and democracy for good, and she has built tools and programs to empower groups and individuals to organize and shape policy. Finn is co-founder of Stand Up Republic, a leading organization creating systems to unite Americans across the political spectrum to defend and advance democracy, inspire responsible, unifying leaders and sustain a healthy, pluralistic society. Finn founded Empowered Women, a non-profit working to expand and diversify the conversation on women's equality to build a more inclusive pipeline of civic leaders through which she sits on the board of ReflectUS.[6] Finn previously worked at Twitter heading up strategic partnerships in Washington, D.C., and specializing in business development. She was recently named one of "50 Politicos to Watch" by POLITICO and a "Tech Titan" by the Washingtonian magazine. Finn has also been named one of the Best in Digital by FamousDC. Finn was a founding partner of Engage, an online media strategy company.[7] She sold her stake in Engage to pursue an opportunity at Twitter in late 2011. Finn is currently based in Washington, D.C. Finn has worked on and led digital programs for President George W. Bush and Governor Mitt Romney.[3] She began her career as a Congressional correspondent for the Waterbury, Connecticut Republican-American and as a staffer for Senator Mike Enzi (R-WY) and Representative Lamar Smith (R-TX).[8] Finn is a panelist and lecturer and has spoken at: South by Southwest Interactive conference,[9] Personal Democracy Forum Brookings Institution Edelman Academic Summit Shorenstein Center on the Press, Politics and Public Policy at Harvard University Milken Institute American Political Science Association Summit, Kellogg's Media Management Center at Northwestern University New Politics Institute at the University of Texas American Association of Political Consultants, Politics Online, Konrad Adenauer Foundation (Germany) Fundacion Global Democracia y Desarrollo (Dominican Republic) 2016 vice presidential candidacy[edit] Finn with Evan McMullin In 2016, Finn was chosen as the running mate of independent presidential candidate Evan McMullin.[10] The ticket finished fifth in the popular vote with 0.54%, appearing on the ballot in 11 states and a write-in status in 32 other states plus the District of Columbia. In all but two states the ticket received less than 2% of the vote. In Utah the ticket received 21.5% of the vote, and in Idaho the ticket received 6.7% of the vote. Recognition[edit] Finn was named a "Tech Titan" by the Washingtonian in 2011, a "Rising Star" by Campaigns & Elections Magazine in 2007, and a "Top 10 Political Powerhouse under 30" by Glamour Magazine.[11] In addition, Finn has appeared on MSNBC, Fox News, C-SPAN, NPR and other media channels to provide political commentary.[3] She is regularly quoted in print publications, including Politico.[12][13][14] She has been profiled in numerous publications, including National Journal,[15] Campaigns & Elections,[8] and the Washington Post.[16] References[edit] ^ "Mindy Lisa Finn". Retrieved 26 October 2016. ^ "Mindy Finn". LinkedIn. ^ a b c "Who Runs Gov: Mindy Finn". whorunsgov.com. Archived from the original on 2011-06-29. ^ "The Arena: Politico biography for Mindy Finn". Politico. ^ "10 Truths About Mindy Finn, the Jewish, Pro-Life Texan Running for Vice-President". forward.com. ^ "Independent presidential candidate names Jewish running mate". October 10, 2016. ^ "Enage". engagedc.com. Retrieved October 9, 2016. ^ a b "Mindy Finn Helps Bring GOP into the Digital Age"[permanent dead link] ^ Engage (2 September 2011). "SXSW Panel Voting: Down to the Wire - Engage". ^ "Presidential Candidate Evan McMullin Picks Mindy Finn as Running Mate". ABC News. Retrieved October 7, 2016. ^ Jenning, Linda Kramer. "How to Love a Crazy Job". glamour.com. Retrieved October 9, 2016. ^ "Smear sites hit the campaign trail". Politico. Retrieved October 9, 2016. ^ "Obama faces brave new Web world". Politico. Retrieved October 9, 2016. ^ "CNN-tea party debate draws criticism". Politico. Retrieved October 9, 2016. ^ "Making Politics Hip: Republican Mindy Finn says the first impulse of political strategists should be to think digitally". National Journal. ^ Vargas, Jose Antonio (May 4, 2007). "Meet the OPOs". The Washington Post. Retrieved October 9, 2016. External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Mindy Finn. Appearances on C-SPAN v t e (2012 ←) 2016 United States presidential election (→ 2020) 2016 United States elections Fundraising Political positions Polls national demographically statewide pre 2016 Jan–Aug 2016 international Social media Timeline General election debates Newspaper endorsements primary Vote pairing Recounts Russian interference Faithless electors Republican Party Debates and forums Endorsements Primaries Results Convention Polls national statewide straw Candidates (VP) Nominee Donald Trump campaign endorsements primary positions protests Republican opposition VP nominee: Mike Pence Other candidates Jeb Bush campaign positions Ben Carson campaign Chris Christie campaign Ted Cruz campaign endorsements positions Mark Everson Jack Fellure Carly Fiorina campaign Jim Gilmore campaign Lindsey Graham campaign Mike Huckabee campaign positions Bobby Jindal campaign John Kasich campaign endorsements Josue Larose Dennis Michael Lynch Andy Martin Jimmy McMillan George Pataki campaign Rand Paul campaign positions Rick Perry campaign positions Marco Rubio campaign positions Rick Santorum campaign Scott Walker campaign Democratic Party Political positions Endorsements Debates and forums Primaries Results Superdelegates Convention Polls national statewide straw Candidates (VP) Nominee Hillary Clinton campaign endorsements political non-political positions Democratic opposition VP nominee: Tim Kaine Other candidates Jeff Boss Harry Braun Lincoln Chafee campaign Rocky De La Fuente campaign Paul T. Farrell Jr. Keith Judd Lawrence Lessig campaign Martin O'Malley campaign Bernie Sanders campaign endorsements positions Sam Sloan Michael Steinberg Vermin Supreme Jim Webb campaign Robby Wells Willie Wilson John Wolfe Jr. Libertarian Party Debates and forums Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Gary Johnson campaign endorsements positions VP nominee: Bill Weld Other candidates John McAfee Austin Petersen Darryl W. Perry Vermin Supreme Green Party Debates and forums Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Jill Stein campaign endorsements VP nominee: Ajamu Baraka Other candidates Darryl Cherney Sedinam Kinamo Christin Moyowasifza Curry Constitution Party Primaries Convention Candidates Nominee Darrell Castle campaign VP nominee: Scott Bradley Other candidates Tom Hoefling Independent Better for America Evan McMullin campaign endorsements Mindy Finn Other third-party and independent candidates American Delta Party Rocky De La Fuente campaign VP nominee: Michael Steinberg American Party of South Carolina Peter Skewes American Solidarity Party Mike Maturen America's Party Wiley Drake James Hedges Tom Hoefling Nutrition Party Rod Silva Party for Socialism and Liberation Gloria La Riva VP nominee: Eugene Puryear* Peace and Freedom Party Gloria La Riva VP nominee: Dennis Banks Other candidates Monica Moorehead Jill Stein Prohibition Party James Hedges Reform Party Rocky De La Fuente campaign VP nominee: Michael Steinberg Other candidates Darcy Richardson Socialist Action Jeff Mackler Socialist Equality Party Jerry White Socialist Party USA Mimi Soltysik campaign VP nominee: Angela Nicole Walker Socialist Workers Party Alyson Kennedy VP nominee: Osborne Hart United States Pacifist Party Bradford Lyttle Workers World Party Monica Moorehead Independent candidates Laurence Kotlikoff * : These candidates are constitutionally ineligible to serve as President or Vice President. Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mindy_Finn&oldid=950131257" Categories: 1981 births 21st-century American women politicians 21st-century American politicians Boston University alumni Female United States vice presidential candidates The Graduate School of Political Management alumni George Washington University faculty Jewish American vice presidential candidates Living people People from Houston 2016 United States vice-presidential candidates Washington, D.C. Independents Washington, D.C. Republicans People from Kingwood, Texas Hidden categories: All articles with dead external links Articles with dead external links from January 2018 Articles with permanently dead external links Commons category link from Wikidata Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page In other projects Wikimedia Commons Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Deutsch 日本語 Suomi 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 10 April 2020, at 10:54 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view